---
title: "Status Matches"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 04: The Road to Platinum Status"
module: "Status Shortcuts"
---

# Status Matches

**Status Matches** Once you've achieved status with one airline, you may be able to leverage this to gain status with another airline for free! In this training unit, we will cover... ## What is a status match? Once you've achieved status with one airline, you may be able to leverage this to gain status with another airline for free! Many airlines will offer you the equivalent of your existing status in their own program, without you ever needing to set foot in one of their aircraft! This is known as a status match, and it's one of *the* best shortcuts to status out there! ## How status matches work **A status match is where an airline gives you free status, based on the status you already have with another airline.** For example, if you already have Qantas Gold status, Virgin Australia might give you complimentary Gold status based on that. Status matches are normally given to lure high-value customers (such as those who've flown enough to earn status) to jump ship from the competition. You'll usually only be given a match to an equivalent or lower status tier. For example, even if you have Platinum status in your existing program, it's possible that you might only be matched to the equivalent of Gold status. Not every airline offers status matches. This is where the Oneworld, Star Alliance and SkyTeam alliances become very useful! **Once you have status with any member airline, you'll receive benefits when flying with all other airlines across the alliance.** For example, you could get a Turkish Airlines status match and use your Star Alliance status when flying with Singapore Airlines and Air New Zealand. ## Golden handcuffs The "golden handcuffs" of airline status can lead people to do things that seem irrational. Photo: Adobe Stock. Airlines know that you're more likely to fly with an airline that you have status with, so that you can enjoy the benefits of your status - even if the competitor offers lower prices or a better schedule. After all, you can only use the benefits of your status when flying with that airline or its partners. This phenomenon is sometimes known as the "golden handcuffs". And it's exactly why status matches exist. By giving you a status match, the airline is hoping you'll try out their airline and redirect your loyalty in the long term. But that doesn't mean you're *obliged* to fly with that airline! ## Most airlines don't match the status of partner airlines Very few airlines match the status of a partner airline. So you won't be able to use your Qantas Platinum status to get Platinum status with another Oneworld airline, or a partner like Emirates. But many airlines will be very keen to give you a status match if you're a loyal flyer with one of their direct competitors! ## Don't status match frivolously If you see a limited-time status match promotion that you like, it's best to apply straight away. The deal may not last forever! However, **don't get a status match just for the sake of it**. There are several reasons why you should only get a status match with a particular goal in mind. If your request is successful, it will very much be a case of use it or lose it! You might get the benefits of that status tier for one or two years. But if you don't fly enough to renew the status, you will be bumped down to a lower status tier. And you might not be able to get another status match with that airline ever again. Most airlines will only give you a status match once. You should also consider the timing of your status match request. Try to request this when your existing status is shortly due to expire, or at a time when you'll get to keep your new benefits for the longest time. ## How to request a status match The process for requesting a status match depends on the airline and the type of status match. ## Applying during special promotions If an airline is running a special status match promotion, it will generally provide clear instructions on how to apply. This is usually via email or a form on the airline's website. During a dedicated status match promotion, airlines usually provide clear instructions. ## Applying outside of special promotions If the airline is not running a specific promotion, you can still contact them to request a status match. This is the status match equivalent of "cold calling", but it might still work if you do it strategically. There are a few ways you could contact the airline: - Email the airline's frequent flyer program service centre - Email the airline's local office in your city (for overseas airlines) - Call the airline - Send a message via social media (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc.) You could also use a third-party agency like StatusMatch.com, which will collect the relevant information from you and then contact the airline on your behalf to make your case for a status match. There are fees involved for this service, but it could save you time and increase your chances of success. ## What to include in your status match request There are few things you should include in your request for a status match: - **Your frequent flyer number with that airline** - **Proof of your existing status with another airline **- this could be a scanned copy of your current frequent flyer card (with your status and the expiry date clearly visible!) - **Explain why you are requesting a status match **- convince the airline that you will be a high-value customer by discussing your travel patterns and any future travel you have booked - or plan to book - with that airline. You might also mention the number of flights you take per year and your usual class of travel (especially if you often pay to fly in premium cabins). Provide a compelling case but be honest! - If requested, you may need to provide **a copy of your most recent frequent flyer account activity statement **- this is to prove that you earned your current status by flying (and not through another status match, etc.). This statement should include any flights you've taken in the past 6-12 months. ## Possible outcomes of your request There are 3 possible outcomes of your status match request: **Approved** ✅ You'll receive all the benefits of your new status immediately - generally for at least a year. **Declined** ❌ There is a chance your request might be declined, but you have absolutely nothing to lose by trying! Also keep in mind that even if the airline says "no" at first, that doesn't necessarily mean it will be a "no" forever. **Status challenge offered** 🎯 This is where you're offered status if you can reach a set goal within a fixed period - normally 3 months. You may or may not receive status benefits during the trial period, depending on the airline. ## Status Matcher website The Status Matcher website is a good place to read about other peoples' recent experiences with status matches. As well as airline status matches, this website also contains information about hotel and car hire status matches. ## An example of a status match request Below is an example of an email that could be sent to request a status match. Note that this is just a sample. You should not state that you travel four times per year to Europe if this is not true. However, it would be beneficial to your application to provide other truthful reasons why you would be a high-value customer. To Whom It May Concern I am a Turkish Airlines Miles&Smiles member. My account number is 123456789. I wish to be status matched to Turkish Miles&Smiles GOLD Status level based on my current Platinum status with Qantas (Oneworld Emerald). I have not flown Turkish Airlines previously, but have heard great things about the airline and I recently joined Miles&Smiles as I have some future travel planned with Turkish Airlines. I however do not want to lose any of the benefits that I normally enjoy with Qantas. I usually fly between Australia and Europe four times per year in Business Class and usually use Qantas due to the benefits I receive with my Platinum status. However, should my request be successful, I would consider flying with Turkish Airlines a lot more in the future. Please find attached a copy of my current Qantas Frequent Flyer card and my most recent account activity statement. Please expedite this request and inform me via email of the outcome so I can continue planning my journey as I look forward to flying Turkish Airlines soon. Kind regards, Joe Bloggs ## Airlines that DO and DON'T match status Not all airlines offer status matches, and some only do so during publicised status match promotions. To help you out, we've created a list of airlines that generally do and don't do status matches. ## Airlines currently accepting status match requests Frequent flyer programAirline statuses that can be matchedDetails & instructionsTurkish Airlines Miles&Smiles (Star Alliance)Star Alliance (Gold only), SkyTeam (Elite Plus only), Oneworld (Emerald – equivalent to Qantas Platinum only), Emirates (Gold & Platinum), Etihad (Gold & Platinum) and El Al (Platinum & Top Platinum)The initial status match period is 4 months. If the member takes an international Turkish Airlines flight within this 4-month period, the card’s validity will be extended to 1 year. Status can be extended for another year by earning 15,000 miles within the first year. (Request on Turkish Airlines website)Vietnam Airlines (SkyTeam)Various airlines including Qantas & Virgin AustraliaSee the AFF article for detailsVirgin Atlantic Flying Club (SkyTeam)American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, El Al, Hawaiian Airlines, Hong Kong Airlines, Iberia, Lufthansa, Pakistan International Airlines, SAS, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, United AirlinesEmail OtherAirlineStatusMatch@fly.virgin.com or fill out the form on the Virgin Atlantic website with proof of your existing frequent flyer status and at least one booked Virgin Atlantic flight. If you qualify for a match to Silver, you would need to show proof of at least one booked flight in any class of travel. For a Gold match, the booked flight would need to be in Premium Economy or higher. (See Virgin Atlantic website for details)Etihad GuestVarious airlines including Virgin AustraliaLimited-time promotion available to residents of Australia and India. See this AFF article for details. Star Alliance member Turkish Airlines has a long-running status match. Photo: Jeffry Surianto from Pexels. ## Airlines that may accept status match requests on a case-by-case basis Frequent flyer programAirline statuses that can be matchedDetails & instructionsEmirates SkywardsCompeting airlines (excludes Qantas as this is an Emirates partner airline)Emirates may offer a "tier upgrade" if you already have a higher status in a competing frequent flyer program. This involves Emirates upgrading your status to one tier above your existing Emirates Skywards status. (If you don't currently have any Emirates status, this means you'll only be upgraded to Silver.)Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer (Star Alliance)You need to hold the equivalent of Platinum status with another airline (e.g. Qantas Platinum/Platinum One, Virgin Australia Platinum, Emirates Platinum, British Airways Gold, etc.)Singapore Airlines may approve status match requests on a case-by-case basis if you can prove you'll be a high-value customer. You must have at least two upcoming Singapore Airlines bookings, or at least one in a premium cabin. You must also show evidence of your recent flight history, and what position you hold in your company and in the community. (See AFF article for more details on how to apply.)Air New Zealand Airpoints (Star Alliance)Competing airlinesAir New Zealand reviews status match requests on a case-by-case basis. A match will only be accepted if the member can prove they are intending to fly enough on Air New Zealand flights in the following year to retain that status. To request a status match, Airpoints members should send a copy of their existing frequent flyer card

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
