---
title: "Cathay"
category: programs
programs: [qantas]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 03: Transferring &amp; Redeeming Points"
module: "Transferring Points to Overseas Airlines"
---

# Cathay

**Cathay** Cathay is the loyalty program of Cathay Pacific. You can convert points from many Australian credit card programs into Asia Miles, Cathay's reward currency, and redeem for flights across the Oneworld alliance. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Why Cathay? Cathay is the frequent flyer program of Cathay Pacific, a Hong Kong-based Oneworld member airline. Previously, Cathay Pacific had two separate loyalty programs - Asia Miles and Marco Polo Club. These merged to become "Cathay" in August 2022. Cathay can be a useful loyalty program for two reasons: award pricing and availability. ## Good pricing Award flights on Cathay Pacific and Oneworld partners are priced very competitively. In some cases, they're almost half the price of an equivalent Qantas award booking. However, annoyingly, Cathay doesn't publish an official partner airline award chart - meaning redemption prices could change without notice. Cathay is most useful for Australians travelling to Asia and Europe. It also offers a good value round-the-world award option, and award flights from Australia to South Africa & South America are priced surprisingly competitively. ## Good availability Another key benefit is that Cathay Pacific reserves more Premium Economy, Business and First Class reward seats on its own flights for Cathay members. You can often find multiple premium cabin award seats from Australia to Hong Kong, and beyond, using Asia Miles - even when there's no availability through Qantas Frequent Flyer. Cathay is the unimaginatively-named loyalty program of Cathay Pacific. Photo: Cathay Pacific. ## Key facts: Cathay - **Airline:** Cathay Pacific - **Currency:** Asia Miles - **Alliance:** Oneworld - Cathay members can earn status by accumulating Status Points - **Status levels:** Silver, Gold, Diamond - **Asia Miles expire** after 18 months of account inactivity - Asia Miles can be transferred to other members' accounts for a fee - **Our program rating:** 3.5/5 ## Earning Asia Miles Asia Miles can be earned by flying on Cathay Pacific, Qantas or any other Oneworld airline: Oneworld member airlines. Note that miles are only earned for bookings in eligible fare classes. **Some Qantas Sale & Red e-Deal fares in Economy Class do not earn any Asia Miles.** Asia Miles can also be earned with the following Cathay Pacific partner airlines: - Air Canada (selected domestic Canada routes only) - Air China - Air New Zealand (Auckland-Hong Kong only) - Austrian Airlines (limited intra-Europe routes only) - Bangkok Airways - Fiji Airways - Gulf Air - LATAM Airlines - Lufthansa (limited intra-Europe routes only) - Shenzhen Airlines (within China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan only) - Swiss Airlines (limited intra-Europe routes only) See the calculator on the Cathay website to work out how many Asia Miles you could earn for any given flight. Note that not all fare classes and routes on partner airlines are eligible to earn Asia Miles (or Status Points). Cathay is also a key transfer partner of many Australian credit card rewards programs. The easiest way to earn Asia Miles in Australia is via credit card spend. Other ways to earn Asia Miles include: - Cathay's online shopping portal (set your location to "ANZ" if you live in Australia or New Zealand) - Staying with hotel partners - Crediting a car rental to Cathay or transferring points from a hotel loyalty program - Shopping or dining with any of Cathay's many partner retailers across Hong Kong See the Cathay website for a full list of program partners. ## Redeeming Asia Miles Asia Miles can be redeemed to fly on any Oneworld airline. You can also redeem Asia Miles to fly on some non-Oneworld partner airlines, but the same route restrictions apply as they do to earning miles (see above). Awards are priced according to distance-based zones. The price will be based on the sum of the distance of all flights in the itinerary. In addition to Standard Awards, which are subject to availability, Asia Miles offers "Miles Plus Cash" awards on Cathay Pacific & HK Express flights. Miles Plus Cash awards simply convert the cash airfare to miles and are relatively poor value, so we'd recommend booking Standard Awards where possible. Award charts for Cathay Pacific flights are available on the Cathay website. Cathay Pacific Airbus A350-1000 Business Class. Photo: Cathay Pacific. Cathay changed its award pricing in October 2023. Here is the current Standard Award chart for flights operated by Cathay Pacific: Cathay's Asia Miles standard award chart for flights operated by Cathay Pacific. This standard chart was updated slightly (and then weirdly removed from the Cathay website) in April 2025. The following amounts changed: - Ultra-short flights (up to 750 miles) in Economy is now 7,000 Asia miles (down from 7,500) - Short type 1 (to certain destinations between 751 and 2,750 miles from Hong Kong) in Economy is now 9,000 miles (down from 10,000) - Short type 2 (to certain destinations between 751 and 2,750 miles from Hong Kong) in Economy is now 13,000 miles (up from 12,500) - Long flights (between 5,001 and 7,500 miles) in Business Class are now 88,000 miles (up from 84,000) - Ultra-long flights (above 7,501 miles) in Business Class are now 115,000 miles (up from 110,000) For some reason, Asia Miles no longer publishes an award chart for one-way or return flights on partner airlines. However, you can find an unofficial Asia Miles partner airline award chart that we put together here. Note that the mileage shown in that chart may vary or change without notice. ## Award sweet spots The key to maximising value with Cathay Asia Miles awards is to maximise the distance flown within each zone. For example, a Standard Award itinerary with a distance of 4,999 miles falls into the "Medium" zone and costs 58,000 miles in Business Class. But a Business flight covering 5,001 miles lands in the "Long" zone and costs 88,000 miles. Here are some of the best uses of Asia Miles: - Cathay or Oneworld flights from Australia to Asia - Cathay or Oneworld flights from Australia to Europe - Qantas flights from Sydney to Johannesburg (note - award availability can be limited) - Qantas or LATAM flights from Australia or New Zealand to Santiago - Qantas/Malaysia Airlines flights from Perth to Singapore or Kuala Lumpur just fall into the "Short" zone and are good value - Qantas domestic flights can be good value Qantas Premium Economy awards from Sydney to Johannesburg or Santiago cost 55,000 Asia Miles one-way, plus taxes. Photo: Qantas. Cathay also has a Oneworld multi-carrier award which can be used to fly around the world. This award is great value and considerably cheaper than the Qantas Frequent Flyer equivalent! We'll have more on this in our course on round-the-world tickets. In the example below, a one-way Malaysia Airlines Business Class flight from Perth to Kuala Lumpur would only cost 33,000 Asia Miles + taxes (which are quoted in Hong Kong Dollars on the Cathay website). An example of a Business redemption available from Perth to Kuala Lumpur on the Cathay website. Note that the price of 84,000 miles, shown in the calendar above, would be for a Cathay Pacific flight via Hong Kong. (The direct distance from Perth to Kuala Lumpur is under 2,750 miles, so that non-stop Malaysia Airlines flight is priced as a "Short" partner airline award. But Cathay Pacific only offers its own service on this route via Hong Kong. The distance from Perth to Kuala Lumpur *via Hong Kong* is just over 5,000 miles, so that would be priced as a much more expensive "Long" reward.) ## How to book The Cathay Pacific website can both be used to book one-way and round-trip awards on the following airlines: - Alaska Airlines - Air China - British Airways - Cathay Pacific - Fiji Airways - Finnair - Japan Airlines - LATAM Airlines - Malaysia Airlines - Qantas - Qatar Airways - Royal Air Maroc - Royal Jordanian - Sri Lankan Airlines The above list includes all Oneworld airlines except American Airlines and Iberia. (Iberia is listed by Asia Miles as being available online, but we found that Iberia flights were not actually showing.) To book any award flight on the Cathay Pacific website, log into your Asia Miles account and click on "Redeem flights": Log into your Asia Miles account and select "Redeem flights" on the Cathay Pacific website to book an Asia Miles award. If you need to book something a bit more complex, click on the "Multi-city / stopover" option. You can theoretically book multi-city awards online, but the website won't let you include more than 4 cities in your search. You'll often get an error message anyway when trying to book more complex awards online, even though it may be a valid itinerary. For some reason, the initial flight search page does not let you enter all destinations. You will also be required to select an airline from the drop-down menu before searching. If your preferred airline is not provided as an option on this page, just choose any random airline and then search anyway. If there is availability on your preferred airline, it should still be shown on the next page. But if you still can't select your preferred destination, you may need to call to make your booking. To book award flights including travel on any partner airlines that aren't available online (such as American Airlines), or for multi-city bookings which include more than four cities, you'll need to call Cathay on **131 747** (from within Australia). There is also a WhatsApp number available on the Cathay website. The Cathay website suggests filling out a Flight Award request form. We do not recommend this method if you're trying to book an award flight that is likely to get snapped up quickly, due to the delay in Cathay responding to your request. ## Award routing rules Asia Miles redemptions can be a little confusing. But key Asia Miles award routing rules include: - A maximum of one transit (up to 24 hours) is permitted on one-way awards, or in each direction on round-trip award bookings. This means you can only have a maximum of two flight sectors in each direction. - On partner airline award tickets, you can only use a single partner airline other than Cathay Pacific (i.e. you could either have 1 or 2 flights on the same partner airline, or 1 Cathay sector + 1 partner airline sector). - Stopovers are not allowed, except on Oneworld multi-carrier awards. ## Cathay status All Cathay members start out as Green members. Since Marco Polo Club was discontinued in August 2022, there are three Cathay status tier levels: - Silver (equivalent to Oneworld Ruby) - Gold (equivalent to Oneworld Sapphire) - Diamond (equivalent to Oneworld Emerald) Status with Cathay Pacific is relatively difficult to achieve unless you live in Hong Kong, regularly fly Cathay Pacific and/or regularly fly on more expensive flexible or premium cabin airfares. If you're a Hong Kong resident, you can also benefit from the ability to earn Status Points by spending on a co-branded Cathay credit card. But cheaper Economy fares earn very few Status Points, and the cheapest fare classes on partner airlines such as Qantas earn nothing at all. Having said that, there are some great benefits if you do regularly fly with Cathay Pacific. For example, Cathay is one of the only airlines to offer lounge access to its Silver members. This benefit is available to Silver members when flying Cathay Pacific, but not with partner airlines. Cathay Pacific's The Deck Lounge in Hong Kong. Photo: Cathay Pacific. You can earn 300, 600 or 1,200 Status Points in a year to earn Silver, Gold or Diamond status respectively. However,** Status Points immediately reset to zero whenever you upgrade or downgrade membership tiers**. This means that if you earn Silver status, you’ll then have to start again from scratch and earn 600 *more* Status Points over the following 12 months to upgrade another tier to Gold. Here is a summary of the number of

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
