---
title: "Other Key Frequent Flyer Programs"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 03: Transferring &amp; Redeeming Points"
module: "Transferring Points to Overseas Airlines"
---

# Other Key Frequent Flyer Programs

**Other Key Frequent Flyer Programs** Many other overseas frequent flyer programs offer value in unique ways. Here are 10 key international programs that Australians should be familiar with. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Air Canada Aeroplan Photo: Air Canada. Air Canada is a Star Alliance airline that also partners with Virgin Australia, Etihad Airways and a long list of other companies. The Canadian flag carrier began selling its Aeroplan points in 2020. Since then, Aeroplan has become a useful program for buying points to redeem for award flights on Air Canada, Star Alliance, Etihad Airways and Virgin Australia - among other niche airlines. We'll have a full unit dedicated to the Aeroplan program in a future Buying Points course. (That course will also teach you how to buy miles and redeem them for great value with several of the other frequent flyer programs featured in this unit.) ## Key facts: Aeroplan - **Airline:** Air Canada - **Currency:** Points - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - Status is earned by accumulating Status Qualifying Miles (SQM) **or** Status Qualifying Segments (SQS) + Status Qualifying Dollars (SQD) - **Status levels:** 25K, 35K, 50K, 75K, Super Elite - Points expire after 18 months of account inactivity - **Our program rating:** 4/5 ## Etihad Guest Photo: Etihad. Etihad Guest is the quirky frequent flyer program of Etihad Airways. Etihad is not in one of the global alliances, but it does have over 20 unique partner airlines. These include Virgin Australia, Garuda Indonesia, Brussels Airlines, Air Serbia and Air Canada. Etihad Guest is a program of interest for several reasons: - You can transfer Amex Membership Rewards points into Etihad Guest - You can also buy Etihad miles at decent prices during promotions - Redeeming Etihad Guest miles for short and mid-length flights can be very good value, including on Virgin Australia Not only is it relatively easy to *earn* Etihad Guest miles in Australia, but they can be a very useful currency. Award flights on Virgin Australia and many other partner airlines are great value, and Etihad Guest is the only way to reliably access Etihad premium availability more than 30 days prior to departure. However, the process of redeeming Etihad Guest miles can be difficult. Note that in February 2024, Etihad Guest massively increased award cancellation fees. If you cancel an Etihad Guest redemption booking, you’ll forfeit the following amounts of miles depending on how far in advance you cancel: - More than 21 days before departure: 25% penalty - 8-21 days before departure: 50% penalty - 1-7 days before departure: 75% penalty - Within 24 hours before departure: 100% penalty Etihad status is also useful if you regularly fly with Etihad Airways, and you can access reciprocal status benefits when flying with Virgin Australia. ## Key facts: Etihad Guest - **Airline:** Etihad Airways - **Currency:** Miles - Etihad is not in a major alliance but has many partner airlines - Status is earned by accumulating Tier Miles - **Status levels:** Silver, Gold, Platinum - **Miles expire** if there is no ***flight*** activity in your account for 18 months - **Our program rating:** 3/5 ## British Airways Club Photo: Nick Morrish/British Airways. *From 1 April 2025, British Airways Executive Club has been renamed to British Airways Club.* Some Australians use British Airways Club as a Oneworld alternative to the Qantas Frequent Flyer program. Others simply buy Avios (either as part of a subscription or simply when they're on sale) to redeem for Oneworld airline flights. You can transfer Amex Membership Rewards points to British Airways Club at a 2:1 ratio. Also, it's possible to transfer British Airways Avios to other "flavours" of Avios, such as Finnair Plus or Qatar Airways Privilege Club. For Australians, the main benefit of British Airways Club is its cheap Qantas short-haul Business Class redemptions. You can also use British Airways Avios to book Qatar Airways Business & First Class flights at competitive rates. However, long-haul award bookings on many other partner airlines are poor value. British Airways is also notorious for high fuel surcharges. There are some good Club benefits for very frequent flyers with British Airways and Oneworld airlines. For example, British Airways does not penalise you for flying with Oneworld partner airlines. However, with the move to spend-based status from 1 April 2025, it's now very uneconomical to maintain status with British Airways unless you/your company pays for very expensive fares. ## Key facts: Executive Club - **Airline:** British Airways - **Currency:** Avios - **Alliance:** Oneworld - Status is earned by accumulating Tier Points - **Status levels:** Bronze, Silver, Gold - **Avios expire** if there is no account activity for 3 years - Avios can be transferred to family members for free or to anyone else for a fee - **Our program rating:** 3.5/5 ## Qatar Airways Privilege Club Photo: Qatar Airways. In 2022, the Qatar Airways Privilege Club program adopted Avios as its points currency - the same currency used by British Airways Executive Club, Iberia and several other affiliated airlines. What's more, it's possible to transfer Avios between your British Airways Executive Club and Qatar Airways Privilege Club accounts at a 1:1 rate. Australians can also transfer Amex Membership Rewards points (and a few other niche currencies) into Qatar Airways Privilege Club. This makes it possible to earn Avios in Australia through credit card spend. Those Avios can be used to book reward flights on Qatar Airways, Oneworld members and some of Qatar's other unique partner airlines. You can also use Qatar Avios to upgrade on Qatar Airways flights. As Qatar Airways is part of the Oneworld alliance, and a Virgin Australia partner *as well*, Qatar Airways status is particularly useful to Australians as you can enjoy benefits on both of Australia's major airlines. However, you won't earn any Qatar Airways Avios or Qpoints when flying Qantas on domestic routes that are also served by Virgin Australia. ## Key facts: Qatar Airways Privilege Club - **Airline:** Qatar Airways - **Currency:** Avios - **Alliance:** Oneworld - Status is earned by accumulating Qpoints - **Avios expire** if there is no account activity for 3 years - **Our program rating:** 3.5/5 ## United MileagePlus Photo: United Airlines. In 2019, United Airlines removed award charts and made it harder to earn status. Despite these changes to the MileagePlus program, it still has some advantages. In particular, United sells miles which can be easily redeemed online for travel on any Star Alliance airline, and miles no longer expire. There's also a MileagePlus status match challenge available which provides a shortcut to Star Alliance status. We'll explain how this challenge works in detail in the next course. ## Key facts: MileagePlus - **Airline:** United - **Currency:** Miles - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - Status is earned by earning Premier Qualifying Points (PQP) and/or Premier Qualifying Flights (PQF). You also need to fly at least 4 times per year on United-operated flights. - **Status levels:** Premier Silver, Premier Gold, Premier Platinum, Premier 1K - **Miles do not expire** - **Our program rating:** 3/5 ## Avianca LifeMiles Avianca jets at Bogota El Dorado Airport. Photo: Matt Graham. Like United, Colombia-based Avianca sells miles that can be redeemed for Star Alliance award flights. Avianca LifeMiles are generally cheaper than United miles, with regular bonuses offered of up to 160%. However, LifeMiles are harder to redeem than United miles because the LifeMiles website doesn't work that well and contacting the program can be challenging. ## Key facts: LifeMiles - **Airline:** Avianca - **Currency:** LifeMiles - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - Status is earned by accumulating LifeMiles, including a minimum amount earned from Avianca flights - **Status levels:** Red Plus, Silver, Gold, Diamond - **LifeMiles expire** if you do not earn any new miles for 12 months - note that redeeming miles doesn't count (!) - **Our program rating:** 3/5 ## Aegean Miles+Bonus Photo: Aegean. Aegean Miles+Bonus provides a useful "shortcut" to Star Alliance status. The number of miles required to earn and maintain Aegean status is surprisingly low, as long as you're able to take at least 4 flights with Aegean Airlines and/or Olympic Air each year. This is easily done in a single trip to Greece (for example, by flying Rome-Athens-Mykonos-Athens-Rome). Once status is earned, the number of miles required to renew Aegean status is halved. Read more about Miles+Bonus status on the Aegean website. Aegean miles also happen to be a valuable currency for booking award travel, and Aegean even sells miles. ## Key facts: Miles+Bonus - **Airline:** Aegean Airlines - **Currency:** Miles - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - Status is earned by accumulating Tier Miles - **Status levels:** Silver, Gold - Miles do not expire, provided you keep your account active - **Our program rating:** 4/5 ## Asiana Club Photo: Matt Graham. Asiana Club is another Star Alliance program that makes it easy to earn Star Alliance status. You can earn Asiana Diamond status (equivalent to Star Alliance Gold) by flying 40,000 miles on Star Alliance airlines over two (not one) years! Plus, once earned, the status is valid for a further two years. There's not even any requirement to fly on Asiana to earn status. Asiana Club miles are also a relatively valuable currency. Once you have Asiana Diamond status, you'll need to fly even fewer miles in your next membership term to renew this for another two years. Plus, Asiana has the lowest lifetime Star Alliance Gold status threshold of any Star Alliance carrier to offer it. **However, Asiana will merge with Korean Air in the near future, which would likely see an end to the Asiana Club program.** ## Key facts: Asiana Club - **Airline:** Asiana - **Currency:** Miles - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - Status is earned by accumulating miles on Star Alliance flights OR flying a minimum number of Asiana sectors - **Status levels:** Gold, Diamond, Diamond Plus, Platinum - **Miles expire** 10 years after being earned - **Our program rating:** 4/5 ## Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan Photo: Alaska Airlines. Alaska Airlines joined the Oneworld alliance on 31 March 2021. Alaska also merged with Hawaiian Airlines in 2024, allowing redemptions on eachothers flights and the transfer of miles between Hawaiian and Alaska at a 1:1 ratio. Its Mileage Plan program is interesting because redemptions are relatively inexpensive, and there are no fuel surcharges on most award bookings. Since the April 2024 changes, Alaska Mileage Plan is most useful to Australians on short-haul redemptions up to 1,500 miles. This includes trans-Tasman awards on Qantas, which start at just 7,500 miles + taxes for Economy Class, one-way. Some long-haul awards are still solid in value, such as Business Class under 10,000 miles (e.g. Melbourne-Doha-Vienna on Qatar Airways) for 85,000 miles. Mileage Plan also has a very generous free stopover policy, as long as travel is on the one airline. Alaska Airlines partners include all Oneworld airlines, Singapore Airlines, Icelandair, Korean Air and Fiji Airways. As Mileage Plan sells miles, it's easy to accumulate a large Mileage Plan balance without ever flying with Alaska Airlines. You can also transfer Amex Membership Rewards points to Hawaiian Airlines, and then convert Hawaiian miles to Alaska Mileage Plan. ## Key facts: Mileage Plan - **Airline:** Alaska Airlines - **Currency:** Mileage Plan miles - **Alliance:** Oneworld - Status is earned by accumulating elite qualifying miles or segments - **Status levels:** MVP, MVP Gold, MVP Gold 75K, MVP Gold 100K - **Miles expire** if there is no activity in your account for 2 years - **Our program rating:** 3.5/5 ## Virgin Atlantic Flying Club Photo: Virgin Atlantic. Flying Club is the Frequent Flyer program of UK-based Virgin Atlantic (not to be confused with Virgin Australia). It's also part of the SkyTeam alliance and a transfer partner of Amex Membership Rewards in Australia. Australians sometimes seem to forget that the SkyTeam alliance exists. But if you're not one of those people, this can actually work in your favour! That's because many SkyTeam airlines fly to Australia, and they often have plenty of award availability on these flights since most

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
