---
title: "Preparing for Your Trip"
category: learning
programs: [all]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 10: Travel Hacks"
module: "Trip Planning &amp;amp; Travel Tips"
---

# Preparing for Your Trip

**Preparing for Your Trip** So, you're ready to travel overseas! There are a few essential steps before you leave the country… In this training unit, we will cover… ## Check the visa requirements for any countries you're visiting When planning overseas travel, it's a good idea to check the entry requirements for the countries you're visiting. For example, you may need a visa or electronic travel authorisation - and if you don't have one, you could be refused entry to the country. Some countries also require you to have a transit visa just to transit to another international flight. **For travel to the USA or Canada, you'll need to apply online for a ESTA/visa waiver before travelling.** **This also applies if you're only transiting to another flight.** A similar system will soon be introduced in Europe. Although we don't recommend relying on this information, Wikipedia has a useful overview of visa requirements for Australians. Other than official government and airline websites, there are a few other reliable third-party websites you could use to check travel requirements: - Timatic (this is what airlines use to check up-to-date visa & entry requirements) - ExpertFlyer (do a "Visa, Health & Passport" search in the "Travel Information" section to get current information from the Timatic database) - Sherpa website The Sherpa website has a handy travel restrictions map. This screenshot was taken in February 2024. ## Check the health requirements for the countries you're visiting For example, you'll need to be vaccinated against yellow fever before visiting some countries in South America and Africa. Some of this information can be found online, e.g. on the Smart Traveller website. Some countries may also still require COVID-19 vaccination certificates. The best person to ask would be your GP or a travel doctor. ## Make sure your passport is valid Most countries require that you have six months of validity remaining on your passport from the date you intend to leave the country. ## Travel insurance is essential! See the next unit for more on travel insurance. ## Check the Smartraveller website The Australian government's Smartraveller website is also a valuable resource for general travel advice and warnings applicable to Australian travellers. If a destination is marked as "reconsider your need to travel" or "do not travel", this could affect your ability to get travel insurance. ## Getting Around Overseas Once you've booked your long-haul flights, it's time to start planning how you'll get around at your destination. Depending on where you're travelling to, there are many different options for transport between cities. Each have their own advantages and disadvantages. This information is focused on travel within Europe, but can be applied to other destinations as well. ## Air travel Travelling by air is a fast and convenient option in most parts of the world, especially for longer journeys. But if you're travelling a relatively short distance – say, 500 kilometres or less – a high-speed train may be both quicker and cheaper. View of the Austrian Alps en-route from Zurich to Ljubljana. Photo: Matt Graham. The trouble with air travel is that the flying time takes up only part of the total travel time. You'll also spend time (and money)… - Getting to and from the airport - Checking in, clearing security and waiting for your flight to board - Waiting around to collect your checked luggage Nevertheless, flying is often the best option for longer journeys. There are plenty of tips on finding cheap flights in Course 8. ## Trains Trains are an excellent option for short-to-medium distance journeys in many parts of the world. In Europe and much of Asia, trains are efficient, safe and reasonably-priced. You'll also get to see much more scenery along the way. Most intercity trains depart from right in the centre of town, eliminating the need for expensive and time-consuming airport transfers. Plus, if you're short on time, overnight trains can transport you to another city while you rest in a comfortable sleeper car. (You'll also save on a night's accommodation.) Uzbekistan has an excellent high-speed train network. Photo: Matt Graham. While rail infrastructure is not great in some parts of the world, the joys of travelling by train still should not be underestimated! Some train trips are an experience in their own right, such as the Trans-Siberian railway in Russia, the Northern Explorer train from Auckland to Wellington, or the Ghan from Adelaide to Darwin. ## Buses Travelling by bus is perhaps not as sexy as travelling by plane or high-speed train. Buses are slower and less comfortable. But they can be extremely cheap and convenient for relatively short journeys. In fact, many intercity bus trips around Europe cost under $20. ## Bus Radar One particularly useful website for finding long-distance bus tickets in Europe is Bus Radar. This is basically the equivalent of Skyscanner for buses. The website will show you all the options for getting between two cities including prices, travel time and seat comfort. Bus Radar also shows a limited range of train connections, making it easy to compare your options. ## Rental cars Hiring a car is another option. This may work out more convenient for you as you will be free to go wherever you like, and at your own pace. If there are several people travelling together, it may also work out to be the most economical option. You will need to hold a driver's licence that is valid in the country you're visiting. This may mean you need an international driving permit. If you're planning an overseas road trip, you might like to check out the Road Trippers website. This can assist in your trip planning and suggest hotels, attractions and other points of interest worth visiting along the way. There are many different websites that compare car rental prices, including Skyscanner. When comparing prices, keep in mind that extra charges are likely to be added to the advertised base rate. These may include insurance, a GPS, premium location surcharges and one-way surcharges. ## Long-distance ridesharing Ridesharing is another way to get around. This concept may seem a bit foreign in Australia, but it's popular in Europe. It works like this: - Drivers advertise trips that they're planning to take, offering to take passengers with them for a small charge - Passengers can then pay to travel in the car with the driver - The price is usually just a few dollars per hundred kilometres, and is shown at the time of booking. One of the world's largest ride-sharing websites is BlaBlaCar. This website operates in most countries throughout Europe, as well as India, Mexico and Brazil. ## Ferries Finally, don't forget about boat travel! Depending on your destination, a cruise or ferry may be a good option. For example, if you’re travelling to the Greek Islands, ferries are an obvious choice. Even right here in Australia, the Spirit of Tasmania is a popular (but slow) way to travel between Tasmania and the mainland. The Stewart Island ferry. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Packing tips Let's talk about packing. Here are some packing tips from the Australian Frequent Flyer team: - **Travel "HLO" (Hand Luggage Only)** - Less is more! There's no need to pack the kitchen sink. Instead, try to take only what you know you will need. You can always buy additional supplies at your destination if needed. Travelling HLO means no checked baggage fees, no wasting time at airport baggage carousels and less things you have to carry around with you! See this AFF article for tips on travelling without checked luggage. - If you do check a suitcase regularly, consider investing in a **smart luggage tracking device** such as Apple AirTags, Lugloc, TrackDot, Keynice or Tile. These are small GPS or bluetooth tracking devices that are placed in your suitcase and can track the location of your bag if it is lost by the airline. These devices come with various payment options; some have an annual fee while others charge only a one-off purchase price. Apple AirTags are a worthwhile investment. Photo: Matt Graham. - **Roll clothes to maximise space** - You'd be surprised how little space your clothes can take up if rolled from top to bottom. Photo: Vlada Karpovich from Pexels. - **Fill your shoes** - don't underestimate the amount of space available inside the shoes! This space can be filled with socks or other small items. - **Old amenity kits make great cable storage** - If you have a collection of spare airline amenity kits, these are perfect for storing cables such as phone and laptop chargers! Amenity kits are big enough to fit these cables, but don't take up much space in your bag. - **Pack with airport security in mind** - You'll make life much easier for yourself if you pack your carry-on bags with airport security in mind. This means placing your liquids in a clear plastic bag, and making sure you have easy access to it. Also make sure you have easy access to any computers, aerosols, or anything else that needs to be removed at the security checkpoint. - **Never pack valuables (or medication) in your checked luggage** - always be prepared for your checked luggage to go missing - especially if you have a tight connection somewhere. This happens more often than you may realise. - **Carry a change of clothes in your hand luggage** - you'll be glad you did if your bag goes missing (or your clothes become dirty during the flight)! - **Some people find packing cubes useful** - these can help to organise the space in your suitcase and fit more in. ## Language barriers Australians are lucky that English is spoken in many parts of the world. But there are many countries where English is not widely spoken. If you're going to be travelling to a particular country on a regular basis, or for an extended period of time, it will be worthwhile learning some of the local language. You could do this formally through language classes. Or you could learn informally, for example through the use of smartphone Apps or online training tools. ## Learning a language There are countless different Apps and programs that you can use to practice your language skills. One good one is a smartphone App called "Duolingo", which is free and easy to use. Listening to podcasts and online radio can also help. Duolingo App ## Overcoming language barriers Here are some tips for overcoming language barriers: - **Learn a few common phrases.** Of course, there's no need to learn fluent French just for a weekend in Paris. But it would be beneficial, and much appreciated by the locals, to learn a few of the most common words and phrases. Phrases such as "hello", "do you speak English", "how much?" and "where is the toilet?" are useful, as are basic numbers. - **Write down your hotel's address in the local language.** If you're planning to take a taxi in a foreign country - perhaps from the airport to your hotel - it's always a good idea to have the destination written down in the local language! This can prevent a lot of confusion, especially if the driver doesn't speak English. Many hotels also provide business cards with the address printed. - **Download a translation App.** There are a number of Apps that can instantly translate text or speech for you. One example is the Google Translate App that instantly translates writing in foreign languages - such as restaurant menus - to your chosen language. - This probably sounds obvious, but **speaking slowly and clearly** can make a big difference. If you're talking to someone with limited English and they don't understand you, try repeating what you said in a different way, e.g. using more simple words. - Use the calculator on your phone to communicate numbers when asking for or negotiating prices in a language you don't understand. - Failing that, it's amazing how far **a smile and

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
