---
title: "Qantas Points Club &amp; Green Tier"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 04: The Road to Platinum Status"
module: "Airline Status"
---

# Qantas Points Club &amp; Green Tier

**Qantas Points Club & Green Tier** Qantas Frequent Flyer offers extra benefits to members who earn lots of points on the ground through Points Club. You can also earn extra points or status credits through the Green Tier initiative. In this training unit, we will cover... ## What is Qantas Points Club? Launched in March 2020, Qantas Points Club offers benefits to "frequent buyers" who earn lots of Qantas points from non-flying activities. All Qantas Frequent Flyer members are eligible to become a Qantas Points Club or Points Club Plus member by earning a minimum amount of points - with most or all of these earned on the ground - during their membership year. After becoming a Points Club or Points Club Plus member, you'll receive access to additional benefits with Qantas and some program partners. These include Qantas Club lounge access and the ability to earn status credits for Classic Flight Rewards. Qantas Points Club or Points Club Plus membership is completely separate to Silver, Gold, Platinum or Platinum One frequent flyer status, which can generally only be earned by flying. It may seem strange for an airline to reward people that don't (necessarily) fly. But for Qantas, it makes perfect sense! Loyalty is one of the most profitable parts of Qantas' overall business, and the loyalty program makes money by selling points to third parties. Qantas Frequent Flyer members that earn lots of points through credit cards and other non-flying activity may be just as profitable to the airline as some frequent flyers. Points Club rewards Qantas Frequent Flyer members who earn lots of points from non-flying activities, such as credit card spending. Photo: Qantas. ## How to get Points Club or Points Club Plus As a Qantas Frequent Flyer member, you will automatically become a Points Club or Points Club Plus member if you the required number of points during your Qantas Frequent Flyer membership year. This is the same 12-month membership year that determines your frequent flyer status, and is based on the month that you joined Qantas Frequent Flyer. Once you become a Points Club member, you'll enjoy the benefits until the end of your next membership year. To renew, you'll need to earn enough points during your following membership year. (This works just like Qantas Frequent Flyer status.) There is an additional requirement that only a maximum of 20,000 Qantas points earned from flying during a given membership year will count towards Points Club membership. In addition, if you happen to earn more than 125,000 Qantas points in a single transaction (e.g. through a generous credit card sign-up bonus or a very large credit card payment), only a maximum of 125,000 points per transaction count towards your cumulative Points Club total. Here are the requirements: LevelEarn requirementPoints Club150,000 Qantas points per yearPoints Club Plus350,000 Qantas points per year Qantas points earned from most non-flying activities will count towards Points Club membership. However, points earned from the following specific activities do not count: - Loyalty Bonus - Family transfers - Refunded Qantas points (e.g. due to a flight cancellation) - Platinum Bonus Reward Points (earned after reaching 2,400 status credits in one year) - Platinum One Bonus Points (earned after reaching 5,000 or 7,000 status credits in one year) In addition, up to 20,000 points received from a Qantas Business Rewards account can be counted each membership year towards Points Club. You can check your progress towards Points Club by logging into your Qantas Frequent Flyer account. You could easily earn enough Qantas points to become a Points Club member with just one or two good credit card sign-up bonuses each year. If you earn 250,000 Qantas points within your membership year (halfway between Points Club and Points Club Plus), you'll also receive a **Milestone Bonus Reward** of 2,500 Qantas points. ## Qantas Points Club & Points Club Plus benefits Points Club members receive some extra benefits when flying Qantas, such as lounge access and status credits on Classic Flight Rewards. There's also complimentary Qantas Wine Premium membership and various benefits with program partners like Avis. These are the benefits of Points Club and Points Club Plus: BenefitPoints ClubPoints Club Plus**Earn status credits on Qantas reward flights**YesYes**Qantas Club benefits**Two lounge invitations (transferrable)Complimentary Qantas Club membership (non-transferrable)**Roll over surplus status credits to next membership year**NoUp to 100 (excludes Platinum One earn)**Bonus points on Qantas Hotels bookings (excludes Airbnb)**25%50%**Annual Qantas Hotels voucher (excludes Airbnb bookings)**$50$100**Accor ALL Silver status fast track**Requires 2 stays of at least 2 nights eachRequires 1 night**Qantas Wine benefits**Free Premium membership + $50 Qantas Wine voucher in birthday month (minimum spend $149 exc. GST)Free Premium membership + 2x $50 Qantas Wine birthday vouchers + 10% discount (excludes Penfolds)**Discount when redeeming points at Qantas Rewards Store**5%10%**Bonus points on Qantas Travel Insurance**Double pointsTriple points**One-class car upgrades on Avis rentals in Australia/NZ**YesYes**Exclusive flying offers throughout the year**YesYes**Priority when calling the Qantas Frequent Flyer Service Centre**YesYes See the Qantas website for full details and T&Cs. The most compelling benefits here are arguably the ability to earn status credits on reward flights (this is unusual for any frequent flyer program) and the Qantas Club benefits. Points Club members receive Qantas Club benefits. Photo: Qantas. Points Club Plus members receive complimentary Qantas Club membership, which could be quite valuable. However, this benefit is non-transferable - so is useless if you already have Qantas Gold status (or higher). The ability for Points Club Plus members to roll over up to 100 status credits per year is also interesting. This could be useful if you earn more status credits than you need in a membership year, as they will be counted towards next year's earn - excluding towards Platinum One status. ## Accor ALL Silver status fast track Qantas Points Club members can also get a fast track to Silver status with the Accor ALL hotel loyalty program. To complete this fast track, you would need to stay: - 2 stays of at least 2 eligible nights at an Accor hotel (Points Club members), or - 1 eligible night at an Accor hotel (Points Club Plus members) Qantas partners with Accor hotels. Photo: Qantas. ## Earning status credits for Classic Flight Rewards If you're a Qantas Points Club or Points Club Plus member, you'll earn status credits on Classic Flight Reward bookings for flights that are marketed by Qantas (only). Points Club members can earn status credits on Qantas Classic Reward tickets. Photo: Matt Graham. This is a unique and very useful benefit if you want to earn Qantas status. Most airlines do not award status credits (or their equivalent) when you fly on points, although there are now a few exceptions. In order to earn status credits when flying on a Classic Reward booking, you'd need to book a "QF" flight number. This generally means you'd need to fly on a Qantas aircraft. But it's also possible to redeem Qantas points on a small selection of codeshare flights with a "QF" flight number that are operated by LATAM Airlines, Air Tahiti Nui or Aircalin on the following routes: - Sydney-Auckland-Santiago (operated by LATAM) - Melbourne-Santiago (operated by LATAM) - Sydney-Noumea (operated by Aircalin) - Brisbane-Noumea (operated by Aircalin) - Auckland-Papeete-Los Angeles (operated by Air Tahiti Nui) As a Points Club member, you'll earn fewer status credits for a Classic Flight Reward than you would if you'd paid for a ticket. But the fact that you can earn status credits at all is quite a good perk. Note that you won't earn any *points* on Classic Flight Reward redemptions. These charts on the Qantas website show how many status credits you'll earn per flight. For example, this is the number of status credits you would earn for a domestic Qantas flight within Australia: Table showing the number of status credits that Points Club members can earn for Qantas domestic reward flights. *Note: Despite the amounts listed on the Qantas website, in practice, Qantas actually appears to award 18, 28 or 38 status credits for short, medium and long domestic reward flights in Business, respectively.* The 7 status credits you would earn for a Qantas Classic Flight Reward from Sydney to Melbourne, for example, compares to 10 status credits for an Economy Red e-Deal ticket or 20 status credits for Economy Flex. In Business Class on short domestic flights, you would earn 18 status credits for a reward ticket or 40 status credits when paying money for a ticket. Here are a few other things to note: - If you're a Points Club member and earn status credits for a Qantas Classic Flight Reward, it **will also count as 1 of the 4 Qantas flights you need to take to earn/retain your Qantas Frequent Flyer status** each membership year. - If you **book a Qantas award flight using points or miles with another frequent flyer program**, you can still earn status credits for the flight as long as your Qantas Frequent Flyer number is on the ticket/boarding pass. (For example, you could use British Airways Avios to book a Qantas flight, enter your Qantas Frequent Flyer number on the ticket, and earn status credits.) - If you're in Points Club and book a Qantas flight using points during a "double/bonus status credits" offer, you **can also earn bonus status credits** for this. ## Maximising status credits on Classic Reward bookings If you're a Points Club member and want to maximise the status credits earned from Classic Flight Rewards, **the trick is to book Qantas-marketed Classic Flight Rewards with as many connections as possible**. There are some interesting opportunities here because status credits are earned *per flight*, while Classic Flight Reward ticket prices are based on the total distance flown - regardless of the number of flight sectors. As long as you don't add stopovers, the number of Qantas points you'll pay for a Classic Flight Reward is based on the total distance of the sum of all flights. But you'll earn status credits for every individual flight sector. So, the "why fly direct when you can connect" principle applies! Here are a few Qantas status run ideas for Points Club members that use Classic Flight Rewards... ## Short domestic itineraries (Qantas award chart zones 1-2) One type of Points Club status run is to book a Qantas Zone 1 award (up to 600 miles total distance flown) or Zone 2 award (601-1,200 miles) with 2, 3, 4 or even 5 sectors. For example, you could fly Launceston-Melbourne-Sydney-Gold Coast (return) in Business class for 55,200 Qantas points + ~$225. This itinerary would earn 108 status credits (18 status credits for each of the six flights). You might be able to earn even more status credits by adding an extra stop in Canberra. And of course, if you book during a double status credits offer, you'll earn double. If you are able to include a flight above 750 miles in a Zone 2 award (up to 1,200 miles total flown), you would earn 11 status credits for the flight above 750 miles. For example, you could earn 25 status credits in Economy for an itinerary like Cloncurry-Mt Isa-Brisbane-Hervey Bay at a cost of 12,000 Qantas points + taxes. When booking a domestic itinerary, the main limitation is that all flights must be on the same calendar day. There are only so many flights you can fly on one day... More sectors means more status credits. But the taxes, airport charges & carrier charges you'll need to pay will increase by approximately $30-50 each time you add another flight to the itinerary. So there is a slight trade-off when adding lots of flights to your ticket. Booking multiple connecting flights will increase the status credits you can earn. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Zone 10 awards with lots of flights On the other end of the Qantas award chart, Zone 10 awards cost 55,200 Qantas points in Economy or 144,600 Qantas points in Business. This covers itineraries with a total distance flown of 9,601-15,000 miles. When booking

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
