---
title: "Save Money While Travelling"
category: learning
programs: [qantas]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 10: Travel Hacks"
module: "Trip Planning &amp;amp; Travel Tips"
---

# Save Money While Travelling

**Save Money While Travelling** In this unit, our experts share their tips for saving money while travelling overseas. In this training unit, we will cover… ## Car hire relocation deals One-way car rentals, where you drop your car off in a different city to where you picked it up, can be expensive. But they can also be extremely cheap if you know what you're doing! You may be able to get a rental car almost for free by taking advantage of a relocation deal. Car hire companies often face the problem of needing to transport cars from areas of low demand to areas of high demand. This is particularly the case for destinations with seasonal demand. For example, a company may have too many cars in Sydney and not enough in Melbourne. Instead of paying hundreds of dollars to have the cars transported, these companies may offer an extremely low price to customers willing to relocate the cars for them. The cost to the customer could be as little as $1 per day. Plus, some companies will even throw in an additional allowance for fuel! However, note that a booking fee may apply. It's a win-win situation. The company saves on transport costs, and the customer gets a cheap rental car! To take advantage of a relocation special you will need to be flexible. The dates that the cars need to be moved, and the cities where the cars are needed are usually fixed. It's also possible that you won't get to choose the type of car. But if you can work around that, you could save a small fortune! This trick also applies to campervans and motorhomes. Some examples of vehicle relocation deals in Australia on the imoova website. Here are some useful websites for finding car hire relocation deals: - imoova.com - Transfer Car ## Save on global roaming costs Depending on your plan, using your Australian mobile phone overseas can be very expensive! But it doesn't have to be. Here are some ways to continue using your phone overseas while avoiding hefty global roaming charges: ## Use roaming deals (such as Vodafone's $5/day roaming) Some mobile providers offer special deals on global roaming. For example, Vodafone will let you use your phone overseas, just as you would in Australia, for a fixed surcharge of $5 a day. That's not a bad deal if you're going overseas for a short amount of time. And you do get the benefit of keeping your Australian phone number. However, it's still an extra $150 a month on top of your regular bill! Photo: Adobe Stock. ## Purchase a local SIM card at your destination A much better option would be to buy a prepaid, local SIM card after arriving at your destination. SIM cards can be bought in most countries. You'll get access to the internet, phone calls and text messages on your own handset, for a very low price. In Europe, for example, a prepaid SIM card can cost just $15 per month. You can generally buy these at mobile phone retailers, and sometimes even at supermarkets. The only real downside is that your phone number will change. ## Buy a travel SIM card This is likely to be more expensive than a local SIM card. But you'll have the advantage of being able to use it in multiple countries. ## Use an eSIM This may be more expensive than buying a local SIM card, but is more convenient. It also allows you to keep your normal SIM card in your phone and it's likely to be cheaper than paying for global roaming on your Australian phone plan. Photo: Andrea Piacquadio. ## Take advantage of free Wi-Fi hotspots An alternative to purchasing a local SIM card would be to switch off global roaming altogether. Wi-Fi hotspots can be found all over the world, including at the vast majority of hotels, and even restaurants, cafes, shopping centres and airports. You can easily use Wi-Fi to connect to the internet there. ## Use Skype Skype is one of many video calling services, alongside Zoom, WhatsApp, FaceTime, Viber and many others. Skype can be specifically useful, though, if you want to call an overseas mobile or landline phone number over Wi-Fi at low rates. Skype also provides the option to purchase a phone number in any country, which redirects calls made to this number to your Skype account. ## Avoid package tours If you're travelling somewhere unfamiliar, it may be tempting to book a pre-paid package tour. While tours do have their place, you should be aware that you may end up paying much, much more this way! If you take the time to plan out your own itinerary, and make all the bookings yourself, you could easily save hundreds or even thousands of dollars! This is because the cost of a package tour includes a certain amount of margin for the travel agent. It also likely includes features or activities that you would not otherwise choose to pay for. So by booking all the components of the tour individually, you'll likely pay less overall. ## Free walking tours Not only are these tours "free", but they're fun and informative! One of the best and cheapest ways to see a new city is by taking a free walking tour. This concept originates from Europe, but free walking tours are now offered in cities all around the world. Even some Australian cities now have free walking tours. A free walking tour in Riga, Latvia. Photo: Matt Graham. Generally, **tour guides work on a tips-basis** so you're free to pay what you like at the end - and the guides are motivated to do a good job! For a 2-3-hour tour, an average tip would be around $20. This is much less than the cost of most paid tours. Plus, seeing a city on foot makes for a great introduction. And, if you're travelling alone, it's an excellent way to meet other travellers. ## Use public transport When getting around a city, using public transport isn't *just *a great way to save money. In many cities it's also the most convenient method. Plus, it's one of the best ways to get a real feel for a city and its people. In many cities, you can get around using trains, trams and buses for just a few dollars a day. If you're planning to use public transport a lot, consider getting the equivalent of an Myki or Go card for that city. Alternatively, check whether day passes or weekly tickets are available. This could work out much cheaper than paying for single trips. In a growing number of cities, including Sydney, Brisbane, Singapore and London, you can even tap on and off public transport using your credit card. You can take the Elizabeth Line from Heathrow Airport to downtown London for a fraction of the price of a taxi, and easily tap on using your credit card. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Ridesharing apps Ridesharing services like Uber, Ola, Lyft, Bolt, Taxify, DiDi or Yandex operate in many cities all over the world. These App-based services are usually cheaper than taxis, and the service is often better too. You could also earn points for some rideshares! For example, Uber customers can earn Qantas points when riding to or from selected Australian airports. ## Avoid "tourist trap" restaurants Finally, avoid eating (or shopping) at tourist traps! "Tourist trap" restaurants sell overpriced, inauthentic food to unsuspecting tourists. They're usually found very close to major tourist attractions and may look inviting, but no locals would ever eat there. The chances are, you'll end up paying way too much for a disappointing meal. Tourist trap restaurants in the centre of Lisbon, Portugal. Photo: Matt Graham. There are a few ways to recognise a tourist trap: - **Check the menu for the price of drinks** - if the restaurant is charging $20 for a beer, something is not right (unless you're somewhere like Norway or Switzerland, where this is sadly the normal price) - **Check how many languages the menu is translated into **- if the menu is in more than 3 languages, the restaurant probably exists to serve tourists! For the best overseas dining experience, try to find a busy restaurant that's full of locals (and not tourists). These restaurants may not be in a prime location, and the staff may not speak English. But the food - as well as the overall experience - is likely to be better. Depending on where you are, street food can also make for a tasty yet inexpensive meal. And don't overlook the excellent hawker centres in Singapore! ## Saving money on train tickets It's generally best to book inter-city train tickets directly with the railway operator, and not a third-party website. This is because third party websites, such as Rail Europe, will often sell you the most expensive tickets available. They may not offer you the discounted tickets that are available by booking direct. These third-party websites also tend to add on various booking and administration fees. If you're just travelling a short distance by train, then the price is likely to remain constant regardless of when you purchase the ticket. But for high-speed and long-distance trains, prices tend to be dynamic, similar to airfares. This means prices will increase as more tickets are sold! So for longer trips, especially during peak periods, it does pay to book well in advance. We suggest booking *at least *two weeks in advance, as the discounted tickets are often unavailable within a fortnight of travel. You can usually book from around 3 months out. This is also when the best specials are usually available. Also, be sure to look out for special passes and deals. For example, most German states offer great value passes that allow for unlimited travel within that region for one day. These passes are especially good value when travelling in a group. If you'll be doing a lot of train travel in Germany, consider getting a Deutschland Ticket subscription. An intercity express train in Germany. Photo: Daniel Abadia on Unsplash. ## Eurail Passes If you're planning to cover a large amount of Europe by train, you may be considering purchasing a Eurail Pass. Eurail Passes offer unlimited travel within the countries listed on the pass for a specified period of time. These passes provide a lot of flexibility. As long as there is a seat on a train you want to use, you'll be able to grab it at short notice. There are also some discounts for people under 26 and groups travelling together. However, there are some downsides to Eurail passes… - **Eurail passes are expensive**! Unless you're doing a lot of travelling and/or booking everything at the last minute, it might be cheaper just to buy point-to-point tickets - **You still need to reserve a seat on each train**. This means you may be stranded if the train is full. - **Some trains require a supplement** or surcharge, e.g. some high-speed and overnight trains. - **The cheaper "second class" Eurail passes are not available to Australians over 26 years old**. If you're 26 or over, you'll need to pay for a more expensive first class pass! We don't think that Eurail Passes are worth it for most people unless you *really* plan to use it. Before purchasing a Eurail pass, it's always a good idea to compare the price with the cost of individual, point-to-point tickets. You may find that buying single tickets will cost you less overall. ## NSW TrainLink Discovery Pass If you're planning to do a bit of train travel within NSW, it's worth considering a NSW TrainLink Discovery Pass. For just $550, you can get unlimited First Class train travel within NSW for six months. You can also use this to travel to Canberra, Melbourne, Brisbane and (using the coach from Broken Hill) Adelaide. First Class seating on the NSW TrainLink XPT train. Photo: Matt Graham.

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
