---
title: "Overview of Hotel Loyalty Programs"
category: learning
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 09: Hotel, Supermarket &amp; Car Hire Loyalty Programs"
module: "Hotel Loyalty Programs"
---

# Overview of Hotel Loyalty Programs

**Overview of Hotel Loyalty Programs** This unit provides a detailed overview of the major hotel loyalty programs. For each program we explain how to earn and redeem points, status levels and the tricks to know about. In this training unit, we will cover… ## Accor Live Limitless (ALL) Accor is one of the most popular hotel brands in Australia due to its large number of hotels and partnership with Qantas Frequent Flyer. Its loyalty program, Accor Live Limitless (ALL) offers some worthwhile benefits including early access to sales. The program is not regarded as a market leader in terms of guest recognition and rewards, but its large hotel footprint makes up for this. ## Brands Accor hotel brands. ## Earning Points There are two types of points in the ALL program – Reward points and Status points. **Reward points** are earned when staying at any participating property, provided you book directly through Accor (i.e. not a third party booking website). Note that some hotels do not participate in the Accor ALL program, including most Ibis Budget Hotels in most countries and various other specific hotels in Australia. See the list of exceptions on the Accor website. **Status points** count towards your elite status tier, but are only earned on the base rate of any hotel room or for booking meeting rooms. Any bonus Reward points earned, e.g. through an offer or as part of increased earn with status, do not count towards status. Earning rates vary by brand. You can view the full list on the Accor ALL website: ALL points earning rates by Accor brand. Screenshot from the Accor website. Note that points are earned per €10 spent, with rates varying based on the hotel brand and your status level. The number of points earned is based on the exchange rate between the Euro and the local currency used for payment on the date of check-out. In addition, Reward points can be earned when hiring a car from Europcar. If you've linked your ALL account to your Qantas Frequent Flyer account and hold Qantas Gold or higher status, you also earn ALL points each time you fly Qantas. You can also convert miles with a limited range of airlines to Accor ALL points, but this is typically poor value. ## Redeeming Points Reward points can be redeemed towards Accor hotel bookings. 2,000 ALL points convert to a €40 (~AU$65) voucher or discount off a future hotel booking. You can redeem for hotel night discounts in increments of 1,000 points and vouchers are transferable. You can redeem 2,000 Accor ALL points for a €40 (or equivalent) discount off a hotel booking on the Accor website. Since May 2024, you can also convert 2,000 ALL points into 4,000 Everyday Rewards points. But you probably shouldn't do that because 4,000 Everyday Rewards points are only worth 2,000 Qantas points or $20 off your grocery shopping. ## Transfer Partners Accor Live Limitless points can be transferred to a wide range of frequent flyer programs, including Qantas and Velocity Frequent Flyer. The transfer rate to Virgin Australia is 1:1, with a minimum of 2,000 points required for Qantas and 4,000 points for Velocity transfers. The transfer rate to Qantas is 1:1.25. Other airline partners include Cathay, Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer, Etihad Guest & British Airways Executive Club. Transfers with these, and most other partners occur at a 2:1 ratio (i.e. 2 Accor points = 1 airline mile) and require a minimum of 4,000 points. See all transfer partners on the Accor ALL website. In general, redeeming ALL points for hotel nights is better value than transferring to airline points/miles. ## Expiry of Points Points **expire if you don't earn any points for 12 months**. ## Status Levels Status levelQualification requirementsBenefitsClassicBase level- Online check-in/ fast check-out - Free Wi-Fi - Member discounts & early access to salesSilver10 nights or €800 spend in a year- All Classic benefits - Late check-out - Free welcome drink - Higher Reward points earn rateGold30 nights or €2,800 spend in a year- All Silver benefits - Early check-in or late check-out - Guaranteed room availability - Room upgrade (if available) - Welcome gift - Higher Reward points earn rate Platinum60 nights or €5,600 spend in a year- All Gold benefits - Executive lounge access at some hotels - Complimentary breakfast (Asia-Pacific only) - Suite night upgrade certificates - Early check-in and late check-out - Dedicated call centre - Higher Reward points earn rate - Premium Wi-FiDiamond€10,400 spend in a year- All Platinum benefits - Complimentary breakfast at all hotels on weekends - Dining & Spa Rewards ## Qantas Frequent Flyer partnership Accor ALL has a unique partnership with Qantas Frequent Flyer, allowing members of both programs to link their loyalty accounts. This provides extra benefits to members of both programs when staying at Accor hotels or flying Qantas. Benefits of linking your accounts on the Qantas website or Accor website include: - Earn 3 Qantas points per $1 when staying at Accor properties in the Asia-Pacific region (direct bookings with Accor only) - ALL Platinum/Diamond and Qantas Gold/Platinum/Platinum One members earn 1 ALL point per $4 spent on Qantas flights - Qantas Gold (or higher) & Points Club members can get a fast-track to ALL Silver status - ALL Accor+ Explorer members who also have ALL Gold (or higher) status get complimentary Qantas Wine Premium membership Accor partners with Qantas Frequent Flyer. Photo: Qantas. ## Pros & Cons ProsCons - Points can be transferred to a wide range of airlines, including Qantas and Virgin Australia - Large hotel network - Rewards points earned on total bill, including food/drinks etc. - Qantas Frequent Flyer partnership - Points expire if you don't earn any new points for 12 months - Some Accor hotels (e.g. some Ibis Budgets) do not participate in ALL - Point earn based on Euros, not USD - Rewards are revenue-based - Diamond benefits are underwhelming given the spend required ## ALL Accor+ Explorer membership Accor also offers a separate subscription program called ALL Accor+ Explorer (formerly Accor Plus) which costs AUD349 per year. For this fee, you receive: - 30 bonus status nights credited to your ALL account each year (giving you instant ALL Gold status) - 15% off Accor hotels worldwide (instead of the usual 10% discount) You also get the following benefits at participating hotels in the Asia-Pacific region: - Two "buy one, get one free" hotel nights each year (conditions apply and availability may be limited) - 30% off dining at many Accor properties - Access to discounted hotel rates via "Red Hot Rooms" ALL Accor+ Explorer membership is complimentary for American Express Platinum Charge cardholders. ## Hilton Honors Hilton is one of the more popular programs among frequent travellers due to the superior perks offered to those with status. ## Brands Brands participating in Hilton Honors. ## Earning Points You earn 10 points for every US Dollar (USD) spent on hotel stays at participating properties. There is also a tier bonus for Silver, Gold and Diamond members. Note that rooms booked through third-party websites are excluded from earning points. DoubleTree hotels are part of the Hilton Honors family. Photo: Matt Graham. In addition, you can earn points through rental car partners, transfer Virgin Atlantic or Hawaiian Airlines miles to Hilton Honors, or buy points. ## Redeeming Points Hilton Honors points can be used to pay in part or in full for any room at any Hilton-affiliated hotel. The number of points required starts at 5,000. There are no blackout dates for redemptions. Reward stays booked using points do count towards status. There's another great benefit available to all elite members with Silver status or above. When redeeming points for a standard room for 5 days or more, you'll receive the fifth night for free! This is one of the more generous benefits of any of the programs covered in this course. Another useful benefit of the Hilton Honors program is "Points Pooling". This allows you to share your points with up to 10 friends or family members. Points can also be redeemed for Amazon or Lyft credit. ## Transfer Partners You can transfer Hilton Honors points to selected airline programs including Qantas Frequent Flyer, Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer and Etihad Guest. Points are converted at a rate of 10,000 Honors points = 1,500 Qantas/Velocity points. ## Expiry of Points Points expire after 24 months of account inactivity. ## Status Levels These are the updated status levels and requirements from 2026: Status level**Qualification requirements**BenefitsBlueBase level - Digital check-in and check-out - Choose your own room - Free internet access at many properties Silver4 stays or 10 nights or 25,000 base points in a calendar year - All Blue benefits - Every fifth night free on standard room awards of 5+ nights - 20% tier bonus points - Free bottled water Gold15 stays or 25 nights or USD6,000 annual eligible spend - All Silver benefits - 80% tier bonus points - Free breakfast or food & beverage credit (varies by brand and region) - Complimentary room upgrade at Conrad, Hilton & DoubleTree hotels (subject to availability) Diamond25 stays or 50 nights or USD11,500 annual eligible spend - All Gold benefits - 100% tier bonus points - Guaranteed room availability - Executive Lounge access at most Conrad, Hilton and Doubletree properties - Ability to extend membership for 1 year if you don't re-qualify (available to Diamond members for 3+ years, once only) Diamond Reserve80 nights or 40 stays or USD18,000 annual eligible spend - All Diamond benefits - 120% tier bonus points - Better upgrades - Premium Club access - Guaranteed 4pm late checkout A notable status benefit that Hilton *doesn't* offer, except with Diamond Reserve status, is late check-out. Once earned, you'll keep your Hilton status until March of the following year. Note that if you check out of a Hilton hotel and then re-check in the next day, this counts as one stay only. Full details about status levels and benefits, some of which vary by brand, are available on the Hilton Honors website. ## Pros & Cons ProsCons - Status holders are looked after well - No award blackout dates - Fifth-night free awards - Award stays count towards status - Numerous status fast-track options - Ability to extend Diamond membership once if you don't requalify - Offers lifetime Diamond status - Bonus points do not count towards status - Free nights at high-end hotels require a large number of points - No "soft landing" when status expires - Reward nights cost a lot of points - Late check-out is only available with Diamond Reserve status ## IHG One Rewards IHG One Rewards has a large presence in Australia and some good redemption options. Although its status benefits are a bit underwhelming overall, IHG does look after its Diamond members well and it has some great Milestone Rewards including confirmable suite upgrades and lounge access subscriptions. ## Brands IHG hotel brands. ## Earning Points Earn 10 points per USD at most IHG properties, with the exception of Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites properties where 5 points per USD are earned. Points can be earned through Hertz car rentals. You can also buy points for around USD10 per thousand, up to 150,000 per year. IHG regularly offers bonuses of up to 100% when buying points, bringing the price down to around USD5/thousand. Crowne Plaza in Reading, UK. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Redeeming Points Although IHG One Rewards does not have blackout dates, reward inventory is limited. Rewards start at 10,000 points/night for a regular room. For more expensive redemptions, Points + Cash can be used. Typically, you would pay around USD30 for every 5,000 points saved on reward nights. Note that reward bookings cannot be modified; only cancelled for a refund of the points. Points can also be redeemed for merchandise, gift cards or transferred to an airline program. ## Manufacturing IHG One Rewards points It is also possible to "manufacture" points at any time for just

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
