---
title: "Alliance Round-the-World Tickets"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 08: Cheap Airfares &amp; Round-the-World Tickets"
module: "Round-the-World Tickets"
---

# Alliance Round-the-World Tickets

**Alliance Round-the-World Tickets** Oneworld and Star Alliance offer round-the-world tickets. This unit explains what you need to know, including tricks to save thousands of dollars! In this training unit, we will cover… ## Planning a round-the-world trip If you *really* want to explore the world, a round-the-world trip is guaranteed to be an unforgettable experience! You'll get to experience different cultures, taste new and exotic foods, speak different languages, meet new people, see sights not found anywhere else, and much, much more. Imagine seeing the Great Wall of China, the Pyramids of Egypt, the Eiffel Power in Paris, the Statue of Liberty in New York, and Machu Picchu – all in the same trip. Well, you can! If you're interested in travelling, we would highly recommend a trip around the world! Apart from being a unique travel experience, round-the-world plane tickets are also great value. This module of the AFF Training looks at many different types of round-the-world tickets. We begin in this unit by exploring the round-the-world tickets offered by the major airline alliances. These can be very good value, but they're not your *only* option. ## Steps to planning a round-the-world trip ## 1. Plan where you would like to go Before you can start booking flights, you'll need to decide where you actually want to go! This will depend on your personal interests, and what you want to get out of the trip. One of the great things about round-the-world tickets is that they are very flexible, so don't be shy to visit some more exotic destinations! ## 2. Decide which direction to fly (east or west) You will also need to decide which direction you wish to fly. Round-the-world tickets can be used to circumnavigate the globe once, travelling either east or west. Many people prefer to travel west, because they find it easier to adjust to the jetlag. There are also fewer westbound redeye, or overnight flights. But you may prefer to travel east, and that's fine. There are fewer overnight flights when travelling west. Photo: Matt Graham. ## 3. Book your round-the-world plane ticket You can then book the flights - or at least the long-haul flights that will form the foundation of your trip. ## 4. Start booking hotels, tours, etc. Your round-the-world ticket will form the foundation of your trip. Once that's booked in, you can then begin to book hotels and make other travel arrangements based around your flights. ## Alliance round-the-world fares The most conventional round-the-world tickets are offered by two of the global airline alliances: - The **one**world Explorer fare - Star Alliance Round-The-World fare The SkyTeam Go Round The World Pass is no longer offered. The Oneworld and Star Alliance fares can be used to travel on any of the airlines within the alliance. You can easily book online or via a travel agent. The alliance round-the-world tickets have some standard rules that apply regardless of which alliance you use: - **Travel must be in one continuous direction** - you must travel either east or west, and cross both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans exactly once each - **Backtracking is not generally allowed** - backtracking between continents is not allowed, although it may be permitted within continents if required due to no other flights being available - **Minimum 4 flights and 10 days ****trip duration** - the trip length is calculated based on the departure date of the first flight - **Maximum 16 flights and 1 year trip duration** - **"Surface sectors" are allowed, but count as a segment and a stopover** - surface sectors are where you make your own way from one city to another (e.g. by train). These are great if you're seeing a lot of places within a small area, e.g. Europe. But they do count towards your 16-sector limit. - **Unlimited date, time & airline changes are permitted free of charge** - flexibility is a key benefit of these tickets! As long as you're not changing the actual routing, changes do not cost anything (but are subject to flight availability). This is particularly useful if some of the flights are too far in the future to reserve at the time of booking. - **Routing changes cost USD125 + any fare difference** - **Stopover cities may not be changed** - **Children between 2-11 years old pay 75% of the adult fare** - **Infants pay 10% of the adult fare** - **Flights are subject to availability in specific fare classes **- for example, Oneworld Explorer tickets in Business Class book into "D" fare class. - **Individual flights may be upgraded with points **- this is subject to upgrade availability and you having the necessary points - **Frequent flyer points and status credits are earned** - credit your flights to a program of your choice within the alliance flown. You'll often earn enough to reach Platinum status with a Business or First Class round-the-world trip. Although the three alliances offer similar products, each does have its own unique advantages and disadvantages. Oneworld Explorer advantages - Price is based on the number of continents visited - Most generous baggage allowance - Ability to upgrade flights on some Oneworld airlines to Premium Economy (for a supplement) - Access to an extensive airline network within Australia - Earn Qantas points & status credits Star Alliance RTW advantages - Only alliance to offer proper Premium Economy fares - Price is based on miles flown - good if you want to visit more continents but spend less time in each - More extensive network in South America, Europe & Africa When choosing an alliance to use, you may also wish to consider your own loyalty to a particular airline or alliance. For example, if you're a Qantas Frequent Flyer member, you might choose to use Oneworld in order to earn Qantas points and status credits. If you had status with Qantas, you'd also receive all the benefits of that status when flying with other Oneworld airlines. For more information on the three global airline alliances, please see our Airline Alliances unit in Course 1. Let's have a look now at each of the three alliance round-the-world fare products in detail... ## Oneworld Explorer The Oneworld Explorer ticket can be used to fly with any Oneworld airlines: Map of Oneworld airlines. Oneworld offers a generous minimum baggage allowance of two bags up to 23kg each on round-the-world tickets. There is also no limit on stopovers, nor on permitted mileage, other than the maximum of 16 sectors that applies across the board. ## Pricing Oneworld Explorer pricing is determined by your **class of travel** and the **number of continents** visited. Each additional continent visited adds to the base fare. However, the final price may vary due to taxes, fuel surcharges, exchange rates and various other factors. Oneworld Explorer fares book into the following fare classes: - Economy: L class - Business: D class - First: A class The implications are that each flight in your booking will require availability in these fare classes. You'll also earn points & status credits at the rates applicable to these fare buckets. ## Oneworld Explorer continents The Oneworld Explorer continents don't align exactly with geography as we know it! This isn't necessarily a bad thing, as it creates a number of loopholes that you can take advantage of. For example, the Caribbean & Central America is classified as "North America". Northern Africa is a part of "Europe/Middle East". Here are the continental zones: Oneworld Explorer continents Here's an example of a 4-continent itinerary: A sample 4-continent Oneworld Explorer itinerary starting in Melbourne. For your reference, this itinerary would cost $6,396 for Economy Class or $17,328 in Business Class if you started the trip in Melbourne. But it would be significantly cheaper if you started the trip in another country such as Japan. We'll have more on this below! ## Upgrading to Premium Economy If you purchase a Oneworld Explorer in Economy, you may have the opportunity to upgrade individual flights to Premium Economy. Qantas Boeing 787-9 Premium Economy seats. Photo: Matt Graham. To give you an idea of costs, the upgrade surcharge for Premium Economy is: RoutePremium Economy surchargeAustralia to South Africa, Middle East or EuropeUSD1,900Australia to the AmericasUSD1,700New Zealand to the AmericasUSD1,450Southeast Asia to Japan, Korea, India or Sri LankaUSD350Trans-Tasman, domestic Australia, flights within Southeast Asia and flights within Middle EastUSD250Australia to Asia, Asia to Europe, North to South America and trans-Atlantic routesUSD950 If you're booking an Economy RTW ticket and an upgrade is available, the Oneworld website will offer it at the time of booking: If Premium Economy is available, you'll be offered an upgrade from Economy. Premium Economy upgrades are offered on airlines with Premium Economy cabins, where there is availability in the following fare classes: - Qantas: R - Cathay Pacific: R - Japan Airlines: E - British Airways: T - Iberia: T - American Airlines: P ## Things to watch - Maximum of 4 flights within any single continental zone, except North America where up to 6 flights are allowed. This excludes flights between continents. Additional stopovers can be added for a fee. - Only two stopovers allowed in the continent where you start your trip. - You must finish in the same country that you started, but it can be a different city. - If your class of travel is unavailable on any flights, you will be downgraded to the next available class. There is an exception for Qatar Airways short-haul flights where only Economy and First Class is offered; travellers with Business tickets can book in First Class. - Finally, be aware of cross-city connections (e.g. connections between Tokyo-Haneda and Tokyo-Narita Airport). If you fly into one airport, then fly out of another airport in the same city, the connection will count as a surface sector! You can read the full rules in this PDF from the Oneworld website. ## How to book Oneworld Explorer fares are extremely easy to plan and book on your own. You just need to use the intuitive booking tool on the oneworld website. You can even save your itinerary and come back to it later if you wish. You'll start by building your itinerary... The Oneworld Explorer booking website. Then, select your flights: You can choose the flights you want to book on each sector. You'll then be provided with a final quote and options to complete the booking. If your booking does not meet the Oneworld Explorer rules, the website will suggest itinerary changes. After choosing all flights, the Oneworld RTW booking website shows the final price and booking options. You could also book with a travel agent, if you prefer. Here are a couple of useful links: - Oneworld Explorer booking tool - Oneworld Explorer's new beta AI-assisted booking tool (not shown on this page) - Oneworld Explorer fare rules PDF download ## Star Alliance RTW fare Next up is the Star Alliance Round-The-World-fare. This works in a similar way to the Oneworld Explorer fare, utilising flights on Star Alliance airlines: ## Pricing With Star Alliance, the price is based on the total number of miles flown. You can visit as many continents as you like - only the total mileage and number of stopovers affects the final price. Star Alliance RTW fares are available in Economy, Business and First class. The regular fare categories are split into 3 tiers: - Star 1: Up to 29,000 miles - Star 2: Up to 34,000 miles - Star 3: Up to 39,000 miles Lower-priced Economy & Business class Special fares are also available, some with limits of 26,000 miles. This chart provides a summary of the different types of Star Alliance RTW fares, in order from least to most expensive: Cabin classFare basisMaximum mileageMinimum stopoversMaximum stopoversEconomySpecial26 00035EconomySpecial29 00037EconomyNormal29 000215EconomySpecial34 000310EconomyNormal34 000215EconomySpecial39 000312EconomyNormal39 000215Premium EconomyNormal29 000215Premium EconomyNormal34 000215Premium EconomyNormal39 000215BusinessSpecial26 000315BusinessNormal29 000215BusinessNormal34 000215BusinessNormal39 000215FirstNormal29 000215FirstNormal34 000215FirstNormal39 000215 Star Alliance Round-the-World fares generally book into the following fare classes: - Economy: Q, V, W - Premium

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
