---
title: "United MileagePlus &amp; Other Star Alliance Options"
category: programs
programs: [krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 06: Buying Points"
module: "Key Programs that Sell Points"
---

# United MileagePlus &amp; Other Star Alliance Options

**United MileagePlus & Other Star Alliance Options** As alternatives to Aeroplan, several other Star Alliance member airlines also sell miles. This unit looks at three of these options. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Other Star Alliance airlines that sell miles At the moment, Air Canada Aeroplan is probably the best overall Star Alliance frequent flyer program for buying points or miles. But there are several other Star Alliance airlines that sell miles, and they can also offer good value. With points or miles in any Star Alliance airline's loyalty program, you can book award tickets on any other airline in the alliance. Photo: Star Alliance. In this unit, we'll look at three of these programs: - United MileagePlus - Avianca LifeMiles - Aegean Miles+Bonus **United MileagePlus** offers good value on certain types of redemptions and it's easy to book United award tickets online. United also allows fee-free changes and cancellations on award bookings, and miles don't expire. But, United can change the cost of redemptions without notice. **Avianca LifeMiles** offers regular promotions with up to 160% bonus miles on purchases, making these among the cheapest Star Alliance miles to purchase. LifeMiles can be useful for simple point-to-point redemptions. However, the LifeMiles website is not user-friendly and doesn't always display award seats that are available to book through other Star Alliance programs. Also, LifeMiles expire if you don't earn at least one new mile at least every 12 months. Avianca is also known to devalue without warning, so **only** use LifeMiles if you have a specific redemption in mind! Finally, **Aegean Miles+Bonus** can be great value on certain types of redemptions as well. However, award bookings may only include up to two sectors per direction, which makes it harder to use this program for long-haul award bookings. This unit covers the basics of buying & redeeming miles with all three programs. As a quick reminder, these airlines make up Star Alliance: ## United MileagePlus A United Airlines Boeing 787. Photo: United. United MileagePlus can be a good program to use for Star Alliance redemptions. The best value is generally Business Class, but some specific Economy redemptions can also be worthwhile. The program is easy to use and almost everything can be done on the United Airlines website. Unfortunately, United no longer uses award charts. Prices are now dynamic and can vary based on the route, airline and even date of travel. There is still some consistency in pricing for Star Alliance partner airline awards. But without award charts, pricing is never guaranteed. United MilagePlus has also made a habit of increasing award prices without notice. So, be sure to check the cost and availability of a given redemption before buying miles! ## Buying MileagePlus miles United MileagePlus miles cost USD35 per thousand plus a 7.5% U.S. federal excise tax, bringing the total cost to USD37.63 per thousand. This is more expensive than the rates charged by most other programs. But United does offer some generous discounts and bonus miles on a regular basis. Offers typically appear every ~2 months, and up to 100% bonus miles are sometimes offered. Typically the bonus amount varies from 60% to 100%. There is a minimum purchase of 2,000 miles and an annual purchase limit of 175,000 miles per calendar year. This limit includes bonus miles. Offers may be targeted, so make sure you've signed up to the MileagePlus program! You can buy miles on the United website. ## Award Accelerator United also offers something called Award Accelerator. Under this program, tickets issued by United Airlines are eligible to earn extra miles for a small fee. The cost of these extra miles varies, but they are often pretty good value. Award Accelerator is offered to United customers when checking in, or when managing any United booking online. You can also purchase additional Premier Qualifying Points or Flights (which count towards United status) via Premier Accelerator. An example of a United Award Accelerator offer. ## Redeeming MileagePlus miles United miles can be redeemed for travel on any Star Alliance airline or other airline partner. United's **non-Star Alliance partner airlines** include: - Aer Lingus - Air Dolomiti - Azul - Discover Airlines - Eurowings - Edelweiss Air - Hawaiian Airlines (inter-island flights only) - ITA Airways - Juneyao Airlines - Virgin Australia - Vistara United miles cannot be redeemed for First Class or Suites on Singapore Airlines A380 flights. (Premium cabin availability on other Singapore Airlines long-haul services is usually restricted anyway.) United MileagePlus does **not** impose fuel surcharges when redeeming miles on United and most partner airlines. ## How to book All United and partner airline award flights can be booked on the United Airlines website. When searching for award flights, simply click on the "Book with miles" box. You do not need a MileagePlus account to search for award availability, but you will need to log in if you wish to make a booking. Check the "book with miles" box to search for Star Alliance award availability on the United website. You can also bring up a month-long availability calendar by checking the "Flexible dates" box. ## Award charts United **no longer publishes award charts** for award travel on United Airlines, nor partner airlines. United-operated flights are priced dynamically, meaning there is no fixed price and prices can vary dramatically. Until May 2020, United did use award charts for travel exclusively on Star Alliance & partner airlines. These award charts were removed without notice and the new pricing is typically around 10% higher than previously. As there are no award charts, prices could change at any time. That is a **huge catch** if you're considering buying miles speculatively! For this reason, we don't recommend stockpiling United MileagePlus miles unless you have immediate plans to redeem them and have checked pricing and availability on your desired route. For award flights on Star Alliance and partner airlines, United MileagePlus sweet spots typically include: - Short Economy Class flights within Europe, Japan and on some other routes - Australia to the Middle East in Business class - Australia to Europe in Business or First class - Australia or New Zealand to the east coast of the USA (e.g. New York) is another sweet spot as the USA is considered a single zone - Flights from "Oceania" to Japan/North Asia cost fewer miles than Australia to Japan/North Asia. The "Oceania" zone comprises of Pacific islands, including Fiji & Tahiti. So, flying from Tahiti to Japan - even though you route via Australia and/or New Zealand - is cheaper than flying direct from Australia. Want to redeem United miles to fly ANA from Japan to Australia? It's cheaper to add on more flights to the Pacific Islands. Photo: Marcus Ng on Unsplash. Here's an example of a United MileagePlus award from Tokyo, Japan to Nadi, Fiji: A United MileagePlus award ticket from Japan to the Fiji (via Australia) costs less than a flight from Japan to Australia. If you just booked the flight from Tokyo to Sydney, the number of miles required would be higher... A United MileagePlus redemption from Tokyo to Sydney. United MileagePlus awards can be particularly good value on short-haul routes within Europe in Economy: Screenshot from United website. ## Award routing rules United's award routing rules are as follows: - Redemptions are priced as one-way awards. Return tickets cost double the number of miles. - As United does not impose a specific limit on the distance flown in an award booking, it is possible to take almost any available routing to reach your destination. United MileagePlus discontinued its "Excursionist Perk" in 2025. ## Fees on MileagePlus award bookings United does not charge a fee for changes/cancellations to award tickets made more than 30 days before departure. For changes & cancellations** within 30 days of the flight's departure**, the following fees apply: - Cancellations: USD125 (or a lower fee if you have status) - Changes to itineraries originating outside the United States: USD125 (or a lower fee if you have status) - Changes to itineraries originating in the United States: No fee There is also a telephone reservation fee of USD25, but most awards can be booked online for free. See the United Airlines website for details. ## Summary: Buying MileagePlus miles - Miles cost USD37.63 per thousand - Promotions are frequent (but can be targeted) and up to 100% bonus miles are offered - Miles can be redeemed for travel on any Star Alliance airline and various other partner airlines - Miles are best used for premium cabin travel to Europe, Middle East and North America - United no longer uses award charts for itineraries that include United Airlines flights ## Avianca LifeMiles An Avianca Airbus A320. Photo: Matt Graham. LifeMiles is the frequent flyer program of Avianca, the national airline of Colombia in South America. LifeMiles' bonus miles are among the most generous of any airline in the world, with **up to 160% bonus miles** regularly offered. In a promotion in September 2020, Avianca even offered 200% bonus miles! This makes LifeMiles among the cheapest to buy of any Star Alliance program. As Avianca is a Star Alliance airline, LifeMiles members should theoretically have access to the same award availability as members of other Star Alliance frequent flyer programs - but this is not necessarily always the case. Unfortunately, the LifeMiles website is difficult to use, award availability does not always show online (especially for things other than simple point-to-point bookings) and dealing with Avianca's Colombia-based call centre can be painful. Also, **LifeMiles expire if you don't buy or earn at least one new mile every 12 months**. In addition, LifeMiles no longer publishes award charts and could change the cost of redemptions at any time, without warning. If you don't mind the hassle, Avianca LifeMiles can be a good program. But if you'd rather pay a little more for a seamless booking experience, stick with another Star Alliance frequent flyer program like Air Canada Aeroplan. ## Buying LifeMiles You can buy miles on the LifeMiles website. LifeMiles officially cost USD33 per thousand, but you should never pay full price! LifeMiles promotions occur 3-4 times per year, and are usually extremely generous. During a typical 145% bonus miles promotion, the cost is effectively USD13.47 per thousand. These promotions are usually only open to LifeMiles members that signed up before the current offer was announced. So don't delay joining up! There is an annual purchase limit of 200,000 LifeMiles. This limit excludes bonus miles. But realistically, you only need to purchase 40% of the miles required for award flights. (See the "LifeMiles + Money" section below.) Miles usually appear in the member's account immediately after making a purchase. As you'll be buying miles from a Colombian airline, we recommend informing your bank before completing any credit card transactions. Some people have reported that their bank blocked their credit card after buying LifeMiles because the bank suspected the transaction was fraudulent (it isn't). ## Redeeming LifeMiles In addition to Star Alliance airlines, LifeMiles can be redeemed for travel on Iberia, Aeromexico & GOL. It should normally be possible to make simple award bookings online. However, you may need to use the "screenshot method" (see below). The LifeMiles website. ## LifeMiles + Money When making a Life Miles redemption, only ~40% of the required miles need to already be in your account. The other 60%, or part thereof, can be paid for using miles bought at the time of booking. Now here's the real beauty of this: The extra miles generally cost about half of the normal price. So you're effectively paying the same as you would in a 100% bonus mile promotion. Plus, these supplementary miles do not count towards your annual purchase limit! When searching for award flights on the LifeMiles website, simply use the LifeMiles+Money slider on the right of the screen to increase or decrease the miles used. You'll be able to pay for up to 60% of the required miles using

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
