---
title: "How Airline Status Works"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 04: The Road to Platinum Status"
module: "Airline Status"
---

# How Airline Status Works

**How Airline Status Works** Status credits are your ticket to elite airline status! This unit explains how to maximise your status credits while minimising the cost of earning them. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Welcome to our "The Road to Platinum Status" course When you join a frequent flyer program, you'll start out at the "base" level. That's Bronze with Qantas Frequent Flyer, or Red with Velocity Frequent Flyer, for example. But as you fly more with that airline and/or its partners, you have the opportunity to attain a higher status tier. For example, Qantas Frequent Flyer members can upgrade to Silver, Gold, Platinum or top-tier Platinum One status. Earn status credits to climb your way to Qantas Silver, Gold, Platinum and Platinum One status. Elite airline status comes with many perks when you fly! The higher your status level, the more perks available to you. For example, Gold frequent flyers can typically enjoy airport lounge access and jump the airport queues - among other benefits. This can make a huge difference to your travel experience, especially when flying in Economy. This course will show you how you can enjoy the perks that come with airline status… without spending tens of thousands of dollars on airfares. If you'd like to add some luxury to your travel experience, this course is for you! ## The benefits of airline status Airline status can make a huge difference to your travel experience. Common benefits of frequent flyer status include… Everyone values status differently, and for many it's the little things that count. Access to priority queues can save you hours of lining up at airports, and there's not much better than a hot shower or a glass of champagne in the lounge before a long flight! That's just the tip of the iceberg. Depending on the airline, other benefits of status can include: - Free upgrades for top-tier flyers - Priority in the upgrade lottery (in the case of Qantas) - Access to priority airport security lanes - Express passes for immigration/customs - Better treatment if your flight is disrupted - Personal greetings on board the flight - Access to better seats on the aircraft - Priority service from the airline's call centre - More access to frequent flyer reward seats ## How to earn status Each frequent flyer program has different requirements for attaining and retaining status. Let's start by looking at how this works in Australia... ## Earning Qantas or Virgin Australia status In Australia, both Qantas Frequent Flyer and Virgin Australia Velocity use a system of "status credits". Frequent flyers can earn status credits for each flight taken, with longer flights and those in higher fare categories earning status credits at higher rates. To reach the next status tier with Qantas or Virgin Australia, you would need to earn a minimum number of status credits during your membership year. You'd also need to take a minimum number of flights on Qantas/Jetstar or Virgin Australia marketed flights, respectively. For example, with Qantas, you would earn 10 status credits for an Economy Red e-Deal ticket from Melbourne to Sydney or 40 status credits for a Melbourne-Sydney Business Class flight. On a Qantas flight from Sydney to Singapore, you would earn 30 status credits for an Economy Sale fare or 120 status credits in Business Class. With Qantas, you'd need 300 status credits to upgrade to the Silver tier, 700 for Gold or 1,400 for Platinum. You'd also need to have flown at least 4 sectors on Qantas or Jetstar. So, for example, for a Melbourne-Sydney-Singapore-Sydney-Melbourne itinerary in Qantas Business Class, you would earn 320 Qantas status credits and 4 sectors. That's enough to get you to Qantas Frequent Flyer Silver status. The number of status credits you earn per flight depends on the type of fare and how far you're flying. Photo: Matt Graham. With Qantas Frequent Flyer, status credits can generally only be earned by flying with Qantas, Jetstar (with the purchase of a Bundle) and Oneworld partner airlines. For Velocity Frequent Flyer, you can earn status credits when flying on Virgin Australia or its partner airlines. There are occasionally opportunities to earn status credits on the ground, but the main way is through flying. However, as of 2 April 2025, flights on Virgin Australia earn status credits based on spend. For Lite fares you'll earn a status credit per $24 spent on your fare, while Choice, Flex and Business Class earns 1 status credit per $12. These are just the basics. We'll explain in full detail how to earn status with Qantas and Virgin Australia - as well as some helpful tricks and shortcuts - later in this course! ## How other airlines award status Overseas, other airlines may use different systems of awarding elite status. In some cases, there may even be a minimum spend requirement - particularly with some of the North American airlines. Let's look at a few examples... ## Earning British Airways, Virgin Atlantic or Qatar Airways status British Airways Club and Virgin Atlantic Flying Club both use a similar system to Qantas and Virgin Australia, except they award "Tier Points" instead of status credits. Tier Points work in a similar way to status credits. Note that as of 1 April 2025, British Airways now awards Tier Points based on spend, for flights on British Airways and select partners. Our guide to earning British Airways Club status covers that program in more detail. British Airways Executive Club awards Tier Points when you fly with British Airways or Oneworld partner airlines. Photo: Matt Graham. Qatar Airways Privilege Club uses a similar system, where members earn Qpoints for flights taken on Qatar Airways or Oneworld partner airlines. Members can climb to a higher status tier by earning enough Qpoints during a single year. ## Earning Singapore Airlines status Some frequent flyer programs award elite status based on the number of "elite qualifying" miles you've earned during one year. These programs tend to award Silver status once you've earned 25,000 miles in a year, or Gold status at 50,000 miles. While "elite qualifying miles" are generally based on the number of actual miles flown, the earning rates for each flight also depend on your fare class. For example, a discounted Economy fare may only earn at a rate of 25% or 50% of actual miles flown. But a Business Class fare may earn miles at a rate of 150% of the actual miles flown. For example, Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer awards Silver status if you earn at least 25,000 Elite Miles during a year or Gold status at 50,000 Elite Miles. You can earn Elite Miles when flying with Singapore Airlines or Star Alliance partners, based on the distance of the flight and a multiplier based on the fare class: You'll earn Elite Miles on Singapore Airlines flights for each mile flown in distance, multiplied by the earning rate for your booking class. For example, if you flew from Brisbane to Singapore on an Economy Standard fare in "W" class, you would earn Elite Miles at a rate of 75% of the actual miles flown. The distance from Brisbane to Singapore is 3,816 miles, or 7,632 miles for a round-trip. So, you would earn 5,724 Elite Miles with KrisFlyer for the below booking: You can check the fare class when booking on the Singapore Airlines website, and how this corresponds to the earning table. ## Earning Emirates status Emirates Skywards uses a similar system, with members earning what Emirates calls "Tier Miles". Emirates also requires 25,000 Tier Miles to earn Silver or 50,000 Tier Miles to earn Gold status, within a 12-month period. However, Emirates also offers the option to earn status based on segments flown. You could earn Silver status by flying 25 Emirates sectors or Gold status with 50 sectors. To earn Emirates Skywards Platinum status, you'd need to earn at least 150,000 Tier Miles at take at least one Business or First Class flight within one year. Emirates awards status based on Tier Miles or segments flown. Photo: Emirates. ## Earning Aegean Airlines status Based in Greece, Aegean Airlines is a member of Star Alliance. We thought it was worth mentioning Aegean here because their thresholds for earning status are particularly low... but only if you complete a minimum amount of flying on Aegean Airlines and/or its subsidiary Olympic Air each year. Aegean Airlines Airbus A320 Business Class. Photo: Aegean. These are the number of tier miles and/or eligible Aegean or Olympic Air flights you would need to earn within 12 months to earn or renew Aegean Miles+Bonus status: Aegean Silver (Star Alliance Silver)Aegean Gold (Star Alliance Gold)Tier Miles to earn status**12,000 Tier Miles + 2 Aegean/Olympic Air flights** or 35,000 Tier Miles on any Star Alliance airlines**24,000 Tier Miles + 4 Aegean/Olympic Air flights** or 70,000 Tier Miles on any Star Alliance airlinesTier Miles to renew status**8,000 Tier Miles + 2 Aegean/Olympic Air flights** or 35,000 Tier Miles on any Star Alliance airlines**12,000 Tier Miles + 4 Aegean/Olympic Air flights** or 70,000 Tier Miles on any Star Alliance airlines ## Earning American Airlines status Since 2022, the American Airlines AAdvantage program uses a completely different system of awarding elite status called Loyalty Points. There are several ways to earn Loyalty Points with AAdvantage: - Flying on status-qualifying airlines (American Airlines, Oneworld airlines and other select partners) - AAdvantage credit card purchases - Earning AAdvantage miles with program partners Each eligible AAdvantage mile earned is worth one Loyalty Point. To earn AAdvantage status, you would need to earn the following amounts of Loyalty Points during an AAdvantage membership year, which runs from 1 March until the end of February in the following calendar year: AAdvantage status tierLoyalty Points requiredGold (Oneworld Ruby)30,000Platinum (Oneworld Sapphire)75,000Platinum Pro (Oneworld Emerald)125,000Executive Platinum (Oneworld Emerald)200,000 The following types of miles do not count towards your Loyalty Points balance: - Bonus miles from special promotions - Bought, gifted or transferred miles (including miles purchased in a "buy miles" promotion) - Converting points from another loyalty program to AAdvantage miles - AAdvantage credit card sign-up bonus miles and bonus miles earned on AAdvantage credit cards On top of the main status benefits, AAdvantage members can earn additional "Loyalty Choice Rewards" like Admirals Club day passes and systemwide upgrades after reaching Platinum Pro status with a minimum of 30 flights taken during the year. One systemwide upgrade can be used to upgrade an entire multi-stop trip - even, for example, Sydney-Los Angeles-Miami. So these can be quite valuable! This system is good for US residents with a high credit card spend on AAdvantage credit cards. But if you live in Australia and don't have an AAdvantage credit card (there aren't any available in Australia), it could be quite difficult to earn AAdvantage status. ## Maximising status credits Status credits are generally only earned by flying. There are a few exceptions, like with American Airlines AAdvantage which allows you to earn status by earning points from credit cards and program partners. You can also earn a limited amount of Velocity status credits by shopping at Coles. But with most frequent flyer programs, you wouldn't be able to earn any meaningful status without stepping onto a plane. For any given flight, the rate at which status credits are earned will depend on: - The route/flight distance - The marketing airline - Class of travel - Type of ticket/fare class (flexible tickets earn more than sale fares) You'll earn status credits for every flight, so flying indirect is one way to maximise your earnings. For example, you'll earn twice as many status credits by flying from Canberra to Brisbane via Sydney - even though the direct flight is often a similar price to the one-stop option. For programs that earn status credits based on how much you spend (such as AAdvantage, British Airways Club and Velocity), the cost of your flight is the **only** thing that matters when flying on the associated airline. If you credit

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
