---
title: "Redeeming Points for Reward Flights"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, SEAT_ALERTS]
source: "Course 05: Finding &amp; Booking Reward Flights"
module: "Introduction to Frequent Flyer Redemptions"
---

# Redeeming Points for Reward Flights

**Redeeming Points for Reward Flights** This unit covers the basics of redeeming frequent flyer points for reward flights. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Welcome to our "Finding & Booking Reward Flights" course So far in the AFF training courses we've talked about many different ways to *earn *frequent flyer points. After earning comes the most rewarding part – *spending* your points! Your hard-earned points can be used in many exciting ways, including free flights and upgrades. Unfortunately, redeeming your points can also be the most difficult and confusing part of the points chase. Using points effectively can be a real challenge indeed because reward seat availability is limited. This course will show you how to redeem your points, including how to find award availability quickly and accurately. ## The best uses of frequent flyer points You might recall the above graph from a previous AFF Training course. It shows the value (in cents) that you'll get from one Qantas point, depending on how it is redeemed. As we discussed previously, **the best** **use of frequent flyer points is usually reward flights (also known as award flights) and upgrades**. Premium cabin flights can be especially great value because the cash fares are high, but the number of points required for a redemption are fixed at relatively low levels. Unfortunately, there is a catch. Airlines can only afford to give away such high-value rewards because they control the supply of seats. **Only a limited number of seats are made available for reward bookings and upgrades.** So, redeeming your points can be easier said than done at times. Finding reward flight availability can sometimes be like trying to find a needle in a haystack. Finding reward seat availability is especially difficult if you want to travel in a premium cabin, on a popular route or during school holidays. But that doesn't mean it's impossible! It's just a matter of knowing which part of the haystack to search, and employing the use of specialised tools to find the needle for you. If you're still having trouble, we do offer a Frequent Flyer Concierge service that finds reward seats for you. As an AFF Platinum member, you can even get a discount. But by following the tips from this course, you should be in a good position to do it yourself. :) ## Redeeming points with partner airlines You can of course redeem your points to fly with your own airline. For example, you can use Qantas Frequent Flyer points to book Qantas flights. But you can also **redeem points to fly with any of your own airline's partners**. This opens up many more opportunities to use your points. If your airline is part of an airline alliance like Oneworld, Star Alliance or SkyTeam, you can also redeem your points to fly with any other airline in that alliance. ## Qantas partner airlines As a quick reminder, Qantas is part of the Oneworld alliance. Therefore, Qantas points can be used to fly on any of these Oneworld airlines: Oneworld member airlines. Qantas points can also be redeemed to fly with: - Air France - Air New Zealand (selected domestic New Zealand routes only) - Air Vanuatu - Bangkok Airways (Economy only) - China Airlines - China Eastern - El Al - Emirates - Fiji Airways - Jetstar - KLM - LATAM Airlines - Westjet (Economy only) ## Virgin Australia partner airlines Virgin Australia is not part of an alliance. But as of February 2025, Velocity Frequent Flyer points can be redeemed for reward seats on Virgin Australia and nine other partner airlines: ## Other airlines It's a similar story for almost every frequent flyer program in the world. Get to know which airlines partner with your frequent flyer program - you may be surprised of all the different airlines you could redeem your points to fly with! For example, did you know that you can redeem Emirates Skywards miles or Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan miles to fly with Korean Air? Or Etihad Guest miles to fly with Air Serbia? Korean Air partners with a range of airlines including Emirates and Alaska Airlines. Photo: Simon from Pixabay. ## Types of award charts Most frequent flyer programs use one of the following types of charts to determine the pricing of award flights: ## Region-based award charts This is where regions are divided into geographical zones, and there is one price for award flights from anywhere within a zone to anywhere within the other zone. Examples of programs that use zone-based awards include Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer and Avianca LifeMiles. The Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer program uses region-based award charts. Most airlines that use region-based award charts impose certain routing restrictions to prevent savvy frequent flyers from exploiting the system. For example, there may be a maximum number of flights allowed per booking. Or, a "maximum permitted mileage" may apply (e.g. you can fly up to 50% more miles in total than the great-circle distance between the two airports). Some airlines require that the most direct route to the destination is used. Despite this, there is often a fair bit of flexibility. Your program's award routing rules will explain what you can and can't do. ## Distance-based award charts Here, the cost of a reward booking is based on the total distance being flown. Distances are generally grouped into zones (e.g. Zone 1 is for flights up to 600 miles, zone 2 is for flights between 601-1,200 miles, and so on). Examples of programs that use distance-based awards include Qantas Frequent Flyer, Velocity Frequent Flyer and Cathay. The Qantas Classic Flight Reward pricing table for travel on Qantas, Fiji Airways, Air Vanuatu & American Airlines. This is an example of a distance-based award chart. Distance-based award charts are most useful for short flights that would normally be expensive to buy, or when taking full advantage of the longest distance zone available. ## Dynamic/revenue-based awards Some frequent flyer programs do not used fixed award pricing. Instead, they make every seat on every flight available to book using points - but change the number of points required, according to supply and demand. Under this model, the number of points required is typically linked to the cost of a revenue airfare on that flight. Examples of programs that use revenue-based or dynamically-priced awards include Air New Zealand Airpoints, United MileagePlus and Delta SkyMiles (for award bookings on the airlines' own flights). These are our least-favourite type of rewards because there is less opportunity to "game" the system by using a small number of points on a flight that would be very expensive when buying a ticket. ## Hybrid models There are also some hybrid models. For example, Air Canada's Aeroplan program prices award bookings on most flights based on a combination of geographical zones and the distance travelled. Aeroplan divides the world into four geographical regions, with distance-based award charts that apply to flights within or between specific regions. Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan's new 2024 award charts also use a hybrid model. However, both of these programs also use dynamic/higher pricing for their own flights and select partners. ## Finding sweet spots in different types of award charts It is hard to extract "outsized" value where award charts are priced dynamically, based on the cost of a cash ticket. That's because the flights with more expensive commercial airfares will simply cost more points, and vice versa. On the other hand, you can extract a lot of value from "sweet spots" in distance-based or region-based award charts because the cost of a redemption is not tied to the cost of an equivalent airfare. (Sweet spots occur where expensive flights can be booked for a relatively small number of points.) Region-based award charts often have "sweet spots" caused by geographical quirks. For example, some zones are quite large but an award flight within that zone might not cost that many points. Region-based awards are especially useful when there are a lot of different countries grouped into a single region. But distance-based awards can be better value for shorter flights that would otherwise cross between different regions (e.g. Darwin to Singapore). All of this is something to keep in mind when choosing a program to use for a particular redemption. Certain routes are much better value using one system over the other, so make sure you're using the right program for the right reward. ## Great Circle Mapper When working with distance-based award charts, you can use a tool such as Great Circle Mapper to calculate the distance being flown. This website maps and calculates the distance of any possible flight routing in the world. There are a number of situations where this comes in handy: - Determining how many points you'll earn for a flight - Determining the number of points required for a reward flight (where distance-based award charts are used) - Making sure your routing complies with the Qantas Oneworld Classic Flight Reward routing rules (we'll have more information on this in Course 8) - Visually mapping the most direct flight path for any given route You can use Great Circle Mapper to calculate the distances flown. The video below demonstrates some of the uses of Great Circle Mapper: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMRhZ7lye9o ## The basics of booking reward flights Once you've decided *how *you want to spend your points, the process of actually redeeming them will vary from airline to airline. The first step is to find out which of your frequent flyer program's airline partners fly to your preferred destination. Once you've identified possible options, you'll need to find available reward seats. This can be challenging because not all flights will have award availability in the class of travel you want. You may need to search somewhere other than your airline's own website for reward seats. (This is purely to check what seats are available.) The process of finding award availability is explained in detail throughout this course. Once you've found a flight you're happy with, you'll need to book it through your own airline/frequent flyer program. In many cases, you'll be able to book on your airline's website. But if you can't book online, you might need to call your airline. ## Make sure your booking gets ticketed! When you make a flight reservation, you'll always get a PNR (passenger name record). This is usually a combination of six letters and numbers. In order to fly, **your booking must *also* be ticketed**. Ticketing occurs when the airline collects payment for the ticket and issues a ticket number, which is a much longer number that doesn't contain any letters. All tickets issued by Qantas start with "081", but each airline has its own number. When you make a booking, there is a risk that the airline might not ticket it straight away - even though you may have received a confirmation email and a PNR. If your ticket doesn't get issued within a certain amount of time, there is a risk that the operating airline might cancel your reservation. If there is a significant change to your ticket (e.g. a change of flight), the airline that issued your ticket may also need to re-issue your ticket within a certain time limit. There is a well-known issue where Qantas sometimes fails to issue tickets for flights operated by partner airlines within a reasonable time frame, leading to the loss of the seats. If you have a Qantas booking and you're concerned that it hasn't been ticketed correctly, you can email the address shown at the top of this AFF article. ## When does it makes sense to redeem points for a flight? Redeeming frequent flyer points can be a great way to save money on airfares. But that doesn't necessarily mean it makes sense to use points *every* time you fly. Frequent flyer points are a limited resource. So it makes sense to use them only on redemptions where you're getting the highest value for them. Unless you're really flush with points,

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
