---
title: "Redeem Qantas Points"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 03: Transferring &amp; Redeeming Points"
module: "Redeeming Qantas &amp;amp; Velocity Points"
---

# Redeem Qantas Points

**Redeem Qantas Points** There are many ways to redeem Qantas points, but using them for reward flights and upgrades is the best value. This unit explains why. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Welcome to our "Transferring & Redeeming Points" Course So far in the AFF Training, we've looked at different ways to earn points including through flying, credit cards and other methods. But redeeming points is the most rewarding part of the frequent flyer points game! Often, unfortunately, it's also the most difficult... In this course, we'll start by looking at the many different ways to redeem Qantas and Velocity points - and explain which redemptions provide the best value. Later in this course, we'll introduce a range of useful overseas frequent flyer programs. You can transfer credit card reward points into many of these programs, so we'll also explain how to decide which program/s to transfer your points into for different types of redemptions. ## Types of Qantas Frequent Flyer redemptions Let's get things started with Australia's largest frequent flyer program! There are many, many ways to use Qantas points. But we can put all redemptions into two broad categories: flight and non-flight. **Non-flight redemptions** include things like gift cards, movie tickets, hotel bookings, wine, fuel, insurance... basically, anything that doesn't involve getting onto a plane. On the other hand, these are the four main types of **flight redemptions** with Qantas Frequent Flyer: - Classic Flight Rewards (awards) - Oneworld Classic Flight Rewards (formerly Oneworld Awards) - Classic Upgrade Rewards (points upgrades) - Classic Plus Flight Rewards - Points Plus Pay flights There are numerous ways to spend Qantas points in the air. Photo: Matt Graham. We'll cover each of these types of redemptions later in this unit. ## Which redemptions offer the best value? In general, **using points for non-flight redemptions is relatively poor value** compared to redeeming for Classic Reward flights or upgrades. You may recall the graph from Course 1 which shows the value you'll get from one frequent flyer point, depending on how it is spent: Using points for things like Classic Reward flights and upgrades almost always works out to be a better deal. But those redemptions are subject to capacity controls - Qantas limits the number of reward seats and upgrades available. For your reference, Qantas lists many of the ways to use points on its website. ## Redeeming points on the ground These are some of the ways to redeem Qantas points on the ground: - Merchandise from Qantas Marketplace - Gift cards - HOYTS movie tickets - Ticketek bookings - Buying fuel from BP - Hotel bookings - Car hire bookings - Qantas Insurance premiums - Wine from Qantas Wine Qantas Frequent Flyer partners with BP. Photo: Matt Graham. We would not generally recommend redeeming your Qantas points for any of these things, unless you have no plans to fly anywhere! Redeeming points on the ground is easy, **but it's generally a poor value use of points**. You'll typically get just 0.4-0.6 cents per point worth of value when redeeming your points for things like gift cards, toasters or luggage on Qantas Marketplace. The value is a little better when redeeming for hotel bookings - but not by much. With these redemptions, Qantas is essentially just taking the retail price of the redemption and converting it to points at a rate that favours the airline. Sometimes Qantas will try to tempt you to redeem points at the Qantas store with deals like "20% off toasters". Don't be fooled - it's still a bad deal! Instead of wasting your points for products you can easily buy with cash, most people will get better value by saving them for rewards that are worth a lot more. If you really have a lot of points to burn and want to use them for non-flight redemptions, Qantas Hotels offers better value than gift cards, at around 0.7 cents per point in value. ## Points Plus Pay Points Plus Pay works the same as most non-flight redemptions. Qantas takes the cash fare price of any flight and converts it to points at an unfavourable rate of around 0.5 cents per point. Using Points Plus Pay is poor value, compared to Classic Rewards, but there are some advantages: - Points Plus Pay tickets earn full Qantas points & status credits (as they are treated the same as cash fares) - You can book any available seat on any Qantas flight - You only need a minimum of 5,000 Qantas points However, it rarely ever makes sense to book flights using Points Plus Pay. On the rare occasion that this represents good value, the retail airfare is probably cheap enough that it would make better sense just to buy the ticket using money and save the points. If you wish to use Points Plus Pay, you'll be able to select this option on the payment page when booking a commercial airfare on the Qantas website. ## Classic Flight Rewards Classic Flight Rewards are one of the best uses of Qantas points. But, as we'll discuss in Course 5 on Finding & Booking Reward Flights, Classic Flight Rewards are subject to award seat availability. Redemption seats are limited, especially on popular routes and in premium cabins. But you'll get so much more value for your points if you *can* find reward seat availability! ## Award charts The number of points required for a Classic Flight Reward is published in award charts on the Qantas website. The cost depends on the distance travelled and airline/s used. You can see these charts on the Qantas website. Qantas uses three distance-based award charts, with rates varying depending on the airline/s flown: - The **Qantas Classic Flight Reward table** covers all flights on Qantas, American Airlines, Emirates and/or Fiji Airways (as well as Jetstar flights if combined with other airlines in this table) - The **Jetstar Classic Flight Reward table** is for itineraries exclusively on Jetstar, which are priced 20% lower than an equivalent Qantas award - The **Partner Classic Flight Reward table** covers all other partner airlines See our guide to calculating the cost of any Qantas Classic Reward booking for more details. ## Partner airlines Qantas points can be redeemed for Classic Flight Rewards on all Oneworld airlines: Qantas Points can also be redeemed for flights on these partner airlines: - Air France (Economy & Business only) - Air New Zealand (selected domestic New Zealand routes only) - Air Tahiti Nui (Auckland-Papeete-Los Angeles routes only) - Bangkok Airways (Economy only) - China Airlines - China Eastern - El Al - Emirates - Hawaiian Airlines - Jetstar - KLM (Economy & Business only) - LATAM Airlines - Westjet (Economy only) Note that, unfortunately, Qatar Airways only makes a small subset of its reward seats available for Qantas Frequent Flyer members to book. From October 2025, you'll be able to use Qantas points on for Premium Economy seats on Finnair, Iberia, Air France and KLM. ## Booking Classic Flight Rewards Most Qantas Classic Flight Reward tickets can be booked on the Qantas website. To book a one-way or return flight using points, click on the "Rewards" slider: Select the "Rewards" option on the Qantas website to book flights using Qantas Frequent Flyer points. On the search results page, you'll see either Classic or Classic Plus reward seats, depending on what's available. If both options are available, you'll see whichever option requires fewer points. If you're seeing paid airfares in your search, ensure your page is set to show "Rewards" instead of "Cash" options. That way, you'll only see Classic and/or Classic Plus Flight Rewards (and potentially also more options on partner airlines that aren't shown at all when viewing cash fares): On the Qantas website, click the "Show Rewards" option to view only reward seats, across all cabin classes. To book multi-city flights - or if you would like to view a calendar that shows award availability across an entire month on one screen, use the multi-city booking tool. Click "Use Points - Classic Flight Rewards only" to search for Classic Rewards using the Qantas multi-city booking tool. We cover the process of finding and booking Qantas Classic Flight Reward seats in more detail in Course 5. ## Classic Plus Flight Rewards As an additional option, Qantas offers Classic Plus Flight Rewards on its own flights. These are much more widely available than Classic rewards, but generally cost more points. Classic Plus Flight Rewards are priced dynamically, based on the cost of a commercial airfare on the flight you're booking. When booking Classic Plus, Qantas is basically just converting the cash airfare to points at the following rates: - Economy Class bookings: 1 cent per point - Premium Economy, Business or First bookings: 1.25 cents per point An example of the new Classic Plus redemption pricing on the MEL-AKL route, when booking on the Qantas website. You'll still need to pay the same taxes & carrier charges that you would on a Classic Reward using money. On long-haul Business & First Class redemptions, Qantas charges higher carrier charges on Classic Plus bookings in order to offset some of the points required. Classic Plus rewards have the same flexibility and conditions as Classic rewards. You won't earn points or status credits on Classic Plus bookings, except for Points Club members who can earn status credits at the same rate as Classic rewards. ## Why Classic Flight Rewards are the best value Award flights can be lucrative because the number of points required does not necessarily reflect the cost of an equivalent airfare. In general, you'll get the best value for your points by using them to fly in Premium Economy, Business or First Class. These redemptions are fantastic value because you'll only need around 2-3x the points required for an Economy seat (and the fees and taxes are rarely much higher, if at all). Yet, the regular airfare could be 5-10x the price! Economy reward flights can be good value too if the equivalent airfare is high. Domestic flights can be expensive, so using points for shorter flights within Australia is often fair value - especially on expensive regional routes. Classic Flight Rewards are generally better value than Qantas Points Plus Pay bookings. Photo: Matt Graham. Classic Flight Rewards are also generally better value than Classic Plus options because the latter are dynamically priced. However, it is possible that the points for a Classic Plus reward could be lower if the flight is on sale. When you book reward seats on the Qantas website, if both options are available, you should be offered whichever option costs fewer points. ## Classic Rewards are more flexible Another little-known advantage of booking a Classic or Classic Plus Flight Reward is that **reward flights can be changed or cancelled relatively easily**. For international bookings, there is a change fee of only 5,000 Qantas points and a cancellation fee of 6,000 Qantas points. By comparison, most revenue tickets (including Points Plus Pay bookings) are much less flexible. ## Award routing rules When booking award flights with any frequent flyer program, it's important to be aware of what routings are/are not allowed. In cases where generous routing rules apply (e.g. free stopovers and open-jaws), you can absolutely take advantage of this! But you also need to be aware of any restrictions to avoid breaking the rules and paying too much. Key Qantas award routing rules include: - One-way awards are allowed and cost half the price of a return booking - Stopovers are not permitted on one-way and return awards. If there is a break between flights of more than 24 hours (on an international itinerary), or the search is split into separate segments (on a domestic itinerary), the booking will be priced as two separate awards - If you're using multiple partner airlines on a one-way award, the booking is priced as separate awards. This does not apply when combining airlines listed in the Qantas Classic

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
