---
title: "Status Challenges"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 04: The Road to Platinum Status"
module: "Status Shortcuts"
---

# Status Challenges

**Status Challenges** Status challenges are another huge shortcut to airline status. You could fast-track your way to elite status in any of the three global alliances! In this training unit, we will cover... ## What is a status challenge? Status challenges are similar to status matches, but with a few key differences: - You might not need to already have status with another airline - You must complete a challenge (usually within a 3 or 4-month trial period) to earn your status - You may or may not receive the benefits of your new status during the trial period Perhaps the most useful status challenge for Australians is the Qantas Frequent Flyer Tier Accelerator. But all of the major US airlines - members of Oneworld, Star Alliance and SkyTeam, respectively - also offer status challenges. If you're approved for a status challenge, you'll generally be given a set goal to achieve within 3-4 months. Meet the target and you'll receive status! The benefit of a status challenge is that the amount of flights you'd need to initially earn status with a particular airline is much lower than it would otherwise be. In this unit, we'll look at the status challenges offered by Qantas, Virgin Australia and the major US airlines. ## Qantas "Tier Accelerator" challenge Qantas Frequent Flyer has a Gold "Tier Accelerator" status challenge. This is offered upon request (and at the airline's discretion) to frequent flyers with Qantas' direct competitors. You may be eligible if you already hold Gold (or higher) status with an airline such as: - Virgin Australia - Singapore Airlines - Air New Zealand - Etihad Airways - United Airlines - Delta - All Nippon Airways **To request a Qantas status challenge, contact the Qantas Frequent Flyer Service Centre by email or phone.** The relevant email address is frequent_flyer@qantas.com.au. When contacting Qantas, be sure to provide the information outlined in the previous unit on status matches (including proof of your current status with a competing airline). ## Completing a Tier Accelerator challenge If your request is approved, you'll have **90 days to earn 200 status credits on Qantas operated and marketed flights**. Complete this challenge and you'll receive Qantas Gold status until the end of your next membership year. This is less than a third of the status credits you'd normally need to earn Qantas Frequent Flyer Gold status. So it's a worthwhile shortcut! As an example, you could earn 200 status credits by flying Perth-Sydney-Auckland in Business Class and returning in Economy. Or, you could fly Qantas round-trip from anywhere in Australia to almost anywhere in Asia in Business. Participating in a Tier Accelerator challenge can earn Qantas Gold status with just 200 status credits from Qantas flights. Photo: Soly Moses. Beware that bonus status credits, such as those earned during "double status credit" promotions, do not generally count towards a Qantas tier accelerator challenge. Challenges are offered on a case-by-case basis, and there is no guarantee that Qantas will offer you one. You won't receive the benefits of Gold or Platinum status until you've completed the challenge. Access Qantas lounges with a Tier Accelerator challenge. Image: Qantas. Separately, Level 3 members of the Qantas Business Rewards program are entitled to nominate one traveller per year to start a Qantas Gold Accelerator challenge. ## Velocity Pilot Gold & Discover Gold challenges From time to time, Velocity Frequent Flyer offers "Discover Gold" status challenges to frequent flyers of other competing airlines (such as Qantas). The last such promotion ran from August to September 2023. Outside of these promotions, Velocity also offers the following pathways to Pilot Gold memberships, which work the same as Discover Gold: - Virgin Australia Business Flyer members can nominate two people for Pilot Gold memberships by spending at least $2,000 within 3 months of joining - Australian medical professionals with Qantas (or another airline's) status can get a Pilot Gold membership via membership of the Business for Doctors association. (See the Business for Doctors website for more information.) You may also be asked to provide a colour photo of your current frequent flyer membership card with your application, with your name and status expiry date clearly showing, and to nominate a start date for your trial period. If your request is approved, you’ll be notified by email. Velocity Gold members can access Virgin Australia's premium lounge entries in Brisbane and Sydney. Photo: Virgin Australia. If you're not eligible for a published Discover Gold challenge, you could also try sending an email to red@velocityfrequentflyer.com or statusrewards@velocityfrequentflyer.com. Explain that you would like to switch your loyalty to Velocity and ask if there are any status challenges available. The answer might be "no", but it's worth trying if you're interested. Note that Velocity generally won't offer you a status challenge if you have already held Silver or higher Velocity status in recent years. ## Completing a Discover Gold challenge As part of the Discover Gold offer, you'll **receive most of the benefits of Velocity Gold status during your 3-month challenge period**. You'll be able to extend your status for a further 12 months by completing the following during your trial period: - Earn at least 80 Velocity status credits, and - Take at least 1 eligible Virgin Australia flight sector (excluding reward seats & Economy Lite tickets) To complete this challenge on Virgin Australia flights, you'll effectively need to spend $960 on your flights. But even then, it might be easier than the Qantas Tier Accelerator challenge. The Velocity Discover Gold challenge can be completed by taking just one flight. Photo: Virgin Australia. ## American Airlines Instant Status Pass The American Airlines AAdvantage program offers an "Instant Status Pass" that comes with the benefits of AAdvantage status for 4 months at a time. American Airlines is a Oneworld member airline, so AAdvantage status comes with benefits on all Oneworld airlines - including Qantas. Uniquely, **you don't need any existing airline status** to apply for an Instant Status Pass. However, there is a fee for starting a challenge which varies from person to person. In some cases, this fee may be waived for selected AAdvantage members, World of Hyatt members or current United or Delta frequent flyers. Otherwise, you can see your offer either by logging into your AAdvantage account and checking the "promotions" section or by calling AAdvantage Customer Service on +1 800 882 8880. As a rough guide, you could expect to pay around USD400 for a Platinum status challenge. But this could vary based on a range of factors, including the date when you start your challenge. American Airlines offers an AAdvantage Instant Status Pass. The Instant Status Pass challenge comes in three phases, each lasting four months. You'll get to enjoy the benefits of your status during the first four months and can extend it for another four months by earning a minimum amount of Loyalty Points during that time: - 10,000 Loyalty Points for a Gold status challenge - 25,000 Loyalty Points for a Platinum status challenge - 42,000 Loyalty Points for a Platinum Pro status challenge - 67,000 Loyalty Points for an Executive Platinum status challenge Loyalty Points are earned when you earn AAdvantage miles for flying or for other activities, including credit card spend. If you earn enough Loyalty Points during the first phase to earn a higher tier, you can also upgrade to that for the following four months. For example, if you started a Platinum challenge but earned more than 42,000 Loyalty Points in the first four months, you'd be upgraded to Platinum Pro status in the second phase. In the second phase, which also lasts four months, you'd have to complete another challenge to progress to phase 3. If you complete all three phases, you'll get to keep your AAdvantage status until the end of your membership year. Anecdotally, if you start your challenge in November or December and then complete the three phases, you'll get to keep your status for the longest amount of time. For example, if you started a challenge in November 2023 and complete the third phase by October 2024, you'd keep your AAdvantage status until the end of March 2026. But if you started in August 2024 and complete the challenge, you'll also keep your status until March 2026. ## United MileagePlus Status Match Challenge Unlike American Airlines, United offers a Status *Match* Challenge. To be eligible, you would need to already hold an equivalent status level with another airline which is valid until at least the end of the calendar year. But there is no fee for starting a challenge. Frequent flyers with most airlines outside Star Alliance are eligible for the United challenge. This includes Qantas Frequent Flyer members. A United MileagePlus Status Match challenge can be used to attain: - Premier Silver (equivalent to Qantas/Velocity Silver and Star Alliance Silver) - Premier Gold (equivalent to Qantas/Velocity Gold and Star Alliance Gold) - Premier Platinum (equivalent to Qantas/Velocity Platinum and Star Alliance Gold) With the 2025 United status challenge, you'll initially receive the benefits of United status for 120 days after completing one "activating flight" on United Airlines. Officially, the benefits are only offered during the trial period when flying with United. But in practice, you should be able to receive benefits during the trial when flying on *any* Star Alliance airline. Access Star Alliance lounges with United MileagePlus Gold or Platinum status. Photo: Star Alliance. To extend your status, you'll need to complete the challenge by earning sufficient Premier Qualifying Points (PQPs) and Premier Qualifying Flights (PQFs) on United and/or United Express flights within 120 days. Here are the United MileagePlus status challenge targets that you need to meet during the 120-day trial period: United status match requirements 2025 Under the 2025 challenge rules, you must earn both PQFs and PQPs to complete the challenge. Only flights/points earned on United Airlines and/or United Express flights count. You'll earn one PQF per flight, excluding award and Basic Economy tickets, and one PQP for every U.S. Dollar spent on your flights, excluding taxes. Therefore, to complete a Premier Gold status challenge, you would need to take at least 10 United-operated flights within 120 days **and** spend at least USD3,400 (excluding taxes) in doing so. That's quite an ask, but it's achievable if you're planning a trip to the USA. If you complete a United status challenge between January and June, your status will then be extended until the end of the following year. If you complete the challenge between July and December, it will remain valid until the end of the year after the next year. So, the best time to complete a challenge is in the second half of the calendar year. After starting a status challenge, you generally won't be able to get another one with the same US airline for at least 5 years. You can apply on the United website. ## Delta SkyMiles Medallion Status Match Challenge Delta, a SkyTeam member, also has its own status challenge. This works similarly to the United challenge, except that the trial period only lasts 3 months. There is no fee for starting a status match challenge, but you will need to hold an equivalent level of status in a non-SkyTeam program to be eligible. Both Qantas and Virgin Australia status are eligible. Your Delta SkyMiles account must also be at least 30 days old. And if you don't live in the USA, you must have flown at least one Delta-marketed flight (on a Delta ticket), excluding in Basic Economy, within the last three years. Delta allows status matches to Silver, Gold and Platinum Medallion status, but not to its Diamond Medallion tier. It takes up to 15 business days to get approved, but it will often be faster. After being approved, you'll enjoy the benefits of Delta status for 3 months. To extend your status beyond this period, you would need to earn the following amounts Medallion Qualifying Dollars (MQDs) within those 3 months: The MQD requirement is

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
