---
title: "Reward Availability Search Techniques"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, SEAT_ALERTS]
source: "Course 05: Finding &amp; Booking Reward Flights"
module: "Introduction to Frequent Flyer Redemptions"
---

# Reward Availability Search Techniques

**Reward Availability Search Techniques** Tips & strategies to help with searching for reward seat availability. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Introduction to finding award availability Unfortunately, the task of finding an available award flight is not always an easy one. If you just want to use your points to fly from Sydney to Melbourne during the middle of the week, you'll probably have a choice of multiple flights throughout the day. But award availability can be much more limited during peak times, on popular international routes and in premium cabins (Premium Economy, Business and First Class). Finding a Business or First Class reward seat to the Americas or direct to Europe can be especially difficult. And of course, if you are looking for multiple seats on the same flights, this only makes it more complicated. ## Award booking fare classes Airlines use fare classes (technically known as reservation booking designators, or RBDs) to manage the available seat inventory on every flight. The lowest fare classes represent the cheapest tickets, but only a limited number of seats are available at this price. Most airlines also use specific fare classes for the allocation of award seats. The number of seats made available as awards is typically even more limited than the number of revenue airfares available at the lowest price. Some flights may have no award seat availability in certain classes of travel. Every airline uses different fare class codes. As an example, here are the **Qantas fare classes** allocated to Classic Flight Reward (award) inventory: - First: P - Business: U - Premium Economy: Z - Economy: X When searching for award availability, you're effectively looking for availability in the relevant fare class. We'll cover fare classes in a lot more detail in Course 7 of the AFF training. ## Where to find award availability There are four main ways to look for reward seat availability... ## Search on your airline's own website Almost every airline in the world will display reward seat availability for their own flights on their website, which is generally a good place to *start* looking. Most airline websites also display reward seats for flights operated by some or all of their partner airlines. For example, you can find award seats on Oneworld airlines just by searching on the Qantas website. So, there is no need to individually check the websites of every airline you're considering booking a seat with. Screenshot from the Virgin Australia website showing Velocity reward seat availability on an All Nippon Airways flight. Unfortunately, there are some limitations with using airline websites. The main one is that most airline websites don't show available award seats on *all* of their partner airlines. This means your search may show no results, even though award seats are actually available on partner airlines. For example, Etihad doesn't show award flights for most of its partner airlines online. You'll only be able to find award availability for Etihad's own flights and selected partners (such as Virgin Australia) on the Etihad website. There are a few reasons that award seats on certain airlines may be omitted from airline website searches, including: - Technical limitations - Airlines deliberately withholding seats from their websites to discourage partner airline bookings Don't be fooled – just because you can't find any award seats on your airline's website, doesn't necessarily mean none are available. You just need to know where else to look! The other problem with many airline websites is their poor user-interface and lack of functionality. For example, some websites display flights for just one day or cabin class at a time. If you wanted to search for award availability over the space of a week, you would need to search seven times. This gets tedious quickly! ## Call your airline After failing to find reward availability on the airline's website, many people will just give up. But *you *should never do that! Don't let a poor airline website stand between you and your dream holiday! If you don't find anything on the airline's website, another option could be to call the airline. You will eventually need to call anyway to book your flights if they're not available online. But you will save a lot of time and effort by finding out which seats are available *before* calling up to book. Searching for award availability over the phone can be very time consuming, and success depends largely on the competency of the agent that happens to answer your call. ## Use another airline's website Thankfully, there *are* some airline websites and other online tools that make the search for award availability significantly easier. For example, there are a few airline websites belonging to Oneworld, Star Alliance and SkyTeam airlines that show award availability for all (or at least, most) airlines within their respective alliance. So if you have points with an airline in an alliance, you could start by going straight to one of those websites. We'll cover these websites later in this course. For non-alliance airlines, find out which other partner airline websites you can use to check for award space. ## Use a specialised website or tool Alternatively, you may be able to search for award space using a tool like ExpertFlyer. There are also some very handy third-party award search tools that can save you a lot of time and even find you seats that you might not have found yourself. We'll cover these specialised tools in the final module for this course. ## Award seat release times Reward availability is limited and seats can sell out very quickly. With some airlines, the best time to book is when the flight is initially released for sale. This usually occurs at a fixed time around 11-12 months in advance but varies by airline and frequent flyer program. For example, Qantas releases seats on many of its own flights exactly 353 days before departure. Virgin Australia releases reward seats around 331 days ahead of time. Here are the release times for a range of airlines of interest to Australians: Award seat release timeline for selected airlines. On routes in very high demand, seats can disappear within hours of the release time! So if you find a suitable flight, don't delay booking. If necessary, you can always change or cancel your booking later. Not all airlines release reward seats when the flight initially goes on sale. Some carriers, such as United, Air Canada and Hawaiian Airlines, often only start to release seats within a few months of departure. Others like Emirates may release seats at the initial release date, but then release more seats closer to departure. ## List of award seat release times by airline Here is a full list of exact award seat release times for major airlines, listed in alphabetical order by airline: AirlineInitial seat release timeNotesAir Canada355 daysAir France/KLM360 daysAir India336 daysAir New Zealand355 daysAlaska Airlines330 daysAmerican Airlines330 daysAll Nippon Airways355 daysAsiana361 daysAvianca355 daysBritish Airways355 daysGuaranteed minimum seats only for BA Club membersCathay Pacific360 daysChina Eastern364 daysDelta331 daysEmirates360 daysEtihad360 daysFiji Airways353 daysFinnair360 daysIberia360 daysJapan Airlines360 daysJetstar300 daysLATAM Airlines328 daysLOT Polish Airlines360 daysLufthansa360 daysFirst awards sometimes released to partners ~14 days outMalaysia Airlines360 daysQantas353 daysSeats released at 10am AESTQatar Airways355 daysTimings may vary for partner loyalty programs to access QR seatsRoyal Jordanian365 daysSAS330 daysSingapore Airlines355 daysSouth African Airways358 daysSriLankan Airlines360 daysThai Airways340 daysUnited338 daysVirgin Atlantic331 daysVirgin Australia331 daysSeats released at midnight AEST If you are unsure of the number of days until your flight, Google is your friend! You can search for terms like "days until 29 August 2025" or "date in 330 days". Keep in mind that **some airlines release additional award seats closer to the date of the flight**, depending on how well (or not) the flight has been selling. So if you miss out initially, do keep checking closer to the date. But have a back-up plan in case the seat you want is not released. Qantas has switched somewhat dramatically to this "batch-release" model for popular routes, if they're not selling as well as expected. It's why you might not see premium cabin reward seats on some Qantas routes months out from departure, but you might see lots of seats closer to the date. Unfortunately, it's very difficult to know exactly when Qantas will "batch-release" reward seats! Note that these times are subject to change, and it's never guaranteed that a particular airline will release award seats on any given date or route. ## Award search tips & strategies You won't always find award availability immediately - even if you are searching in the right places. Here are some tips to refine your search and find those difficult-to-find seats. ## Check all the possible routings to get to your destination FlightConnections.com shows all flight routes worldwide on one map. With the free version, you can search for all current operating flights to/from any airport, on any route or with any airline. If you upgrade to the premium version, you can also filter by aircraft type, classes of travel, etc. This can be a very useful visual tool for checking which airlines fly where. FlightConnections.com screenshot. When searching for award flights on routes without good connectivity, it can also help to check the Wikipedia pages of both your origin and destination airports. Every airport Wikipedia page contains a list of airlines that fly there and the destinations served. Make a list of all of the airlines flying to your destination that you are able to book using your points. (This is where knowing all of your airline's partners becomes handy!) List of airlines flying to Adelaide on the Adelaide Airport Wikipedia page. The Wikipedia airport check serves two purposes: - It identifies all of the airlines available - It identifies possible transit airports between your origin and destination. This will inform your search as you'll be able to focus your search on specific airlines that you know fly to your destination. You can also try searching for flights to/from the intermediate hub airports - which typically yields more results. If you have an ExpertFlyer subscription, you can also conduct a "connecting cities" search for a full list of possible connection airports between your origin and destination. ExpertFlyer showing possible connection points between Darwin (DRW) and Copenhagen (CPH). If you want to search for domestic routes with widebody aircraft, there's also a useful free website called Where The Widebodies Are. ## Be flexible You need to plan your holiday around reward seat availability - not the other way around! Unfortunately, reward flight inventory rarely changes to suit your holiday plans. Be flexible with your dates, and be prepared to fly indirectly if no direct flights are available. Avoiding travel during peak periods, such as Christmas, school holidays and around major sporting events will also make things easier. ## Be creative Think outside the box! If you can't find a direct flight, look for other routes, different airlines and alternative airports that you could use. For example, if you're looking for flights out of Gold Coast Airport, look for options from Brisbane as well. If you want to fly to Europe, don't *just *look for flights to London. Manchester, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris are all other possibilities. You might also want to consider departing Australia from a left-field airport such as Adelaide, Cairns, Darwin or Perth. If you're looking to get to the USA, consider flying via Asia, New Zealand, Fiji or even Tahiti. (You can even redeem Qantas points to fly Air Tahiti Nui from Auckland to Los Angeles via Papeete.) Qantas partners with Air Tahiti Nui, based in Papeete. Photo: Air Tahiti Nui. ## Search for one sector at a time Most of the time, you'll need to stop somewhere en-route to your final destination anyway. So instead of just searching for flights from your origin to final destination, think about what routings you might use and search for flights on each individual sector, one at a time. For example, flying from

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
