---
title: "Introduction to Credit Card Rewards"
category: learning
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 02: Credit Cards &amp; Airport Lounges"
module: "Credit Card Reward Programs"
---

# Introduction to Credit Card Rewards

**Introduction to Credit Card Rewards** Credit cards are the easiest way to earn large amounts of frequent flyer points without flying! This unit introduces the basics of credit cards, their rewards programs and redeeming points. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Welcome to our "Credit Cards & Airport Lounges" Course This course is all about credit cards, and how they can help you to maximise your frequent flyer points and improve your travel experience. Credit cards are a staple for anyone who is serious about collecting frequent flyer points. They make it easy to earn hundreds of thousands of frequent flyer points - without flying and for very little outlay! There are a lot of different credit cards available in the Australian market, each with their own pros & cons. In this course, we'll help you to decide which credit cards to open and show you how to maximise the points you can earn from credit cards. This includes tips on how to earn points for paying tax. We also provide an in-depth analysis and comparison of Australian credit card reward programs. Even if you don't want (or are unable) to get a credit card, there are still ways to earn points on your everyday spend. This course includes a unit about earning points with other financial products, such as debit cards or home loans. ## Why credit cards? Credit cards are undoubtedly **the easiest way to accrue large quantities of frequent flyer points on the ground**. By paying for everyday purchases with a credit card, you can earn points for just about *everything* you buy. And that's on top of any other point-earning opportunities you might have when shopping. But the biggest opportunity for Australians comes from the **generous sign-up bonus point offers** that can be earned when applying for a new card. It's not uncommon to receive 120,000 points just for signing up for one credit card. That could be enough for a Business Class flight to the United States - and it's almost enough points to fly around the world in Economy! You could earn enough points to fly Business Class to the USA from one credit card sign-up offer. Photo: United Airlines. In addition to the points, many credit cards offer a host of **other perks**. These could include things like airport lounge access, free flights, complimentary travel insurance, elite hotel status and many other benefits that vary by card. One Australian credit card, the HSBC Star Alliance card, even comes with a shortcut to Star Alliance Gold frequent flyer status. ## Earning points for credit card spend Many credit cards award points for every dollar spent on the card. (If you don't earn any points on your credit card, consider getting a new one - there are even some cards with no annual fees that award points!) Banks can afford to give away points because they earn an "interchange fee" for every transaction you make on the card. This is typically a percentage of the transaction amount. But, unless there is a credit card surcharge, there is no cost to you. So why not earn points for money you're spending anyway? Some banks do limit the number of points you can earn at the full rate each month or year. But there are plenty of cards that do not have points capping. This could be something to consider if you'll spend relatively large amounts on your card. ## Types of credit cards There are four main types of credit cards in Australia: Visa and Mastercard are the most common card types. These cards are widely accepted. But in Australia, the Reserve Bank (RBA) regulates the interchange fees that can be charged for Visa and Mastercard transactions. This means the banks make smaller commissions on Visa and Mastercard transactions, and therefore award fewer points. **American Express (Amex) cards issued directly by American Express are not subject to these regulations**, so points are generally awarded at a higher rate. Most major retailers accept Amex payments, but some smaller businesses do not. Some businesses that do accept Amex also impose a surcharge, although this is becoming less common. The acceptance of Diners Club cards is a bigger problem. Very few small businesses accept Diners Club card payments. Both Amex and Diners Club offer excellent credit cards with some very worthwhile benefits. But an accompanying Visa or Mastercard would come in handy for transactions where Amex/Diners Club is not accepted. ## Annual card fees Most credit cards come with an annual fee. The exact amount varies but is generally between around $100 and $500 for a personal credit card that earns points and includes some extra benefits like travel insurance. Annual fees are an expense that is not insignificant. But the fee can often be justified by the value of the points earned and other perks on offer such as airport lounge passes, travel insurance or flight vouchers. There are some credit cards with no annual fee. Most fee-free cards don't offer meaningful rewards, but there are a couple of American Express cards with no annual fee that earn Qantas and Velocity points. ## Annual fee waivers For other cards, it may be possible to get your annual fee reduced or waived. Most credit card providers want to retain existing customers and they are often prepared to reduce the annual fee to do so. After all, annual fees are not the only way banks make money from credit cards - they can also earn revenue from interchange fees, interest payments and other service fees. Since 2019, Australian banks are no longer allowed to offer a waived or reduced annual fee if you tell them you want to cancel your credit card. If you use the word "cancel", the bank is legally required under the *National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009 (Cth)* to process your request to cancel your card without arguing or making a counter-offer. Previously, you could often get a better offer on your credit card by threatening to cancel and asking to speak to the bank's retention team. In reality, you can still do this now with most banks - just make sure you don't use the word "cancel". Instead, you could say something like: My annual fee is nearly due and I'm considering whether I want to keep this card for another year. Do you have any current offers available? ## Credit card rewards programs There are two types of point-earning credit cards: - Cards that earn points with the bank's own loyalty program (e.g. American Express Membership Rewards) - Co-branded credit cards that earn frequent flyer points directly with a specific airline, hotel or retail loyalty program (e.g. Qantas Frequent Flyer) An example of rewards vs co-branded credit cards: The American Express Explorer credit card earns Amex Membership Rewards points, while the co-branded Qantas American Express Premium card earns Qantas Frequent Flyer points directly. Credit cards that are linked to the bank's own rewards program are often better value for several reasons: - You have the flexibility to transfer the points to multiple different frequent flyer programs, as required. So when you wish to redeem the points for a flight, you can choose the frequent flyer program with the best reward seat availability and/or lowest cost - The points are less likely to expire (though this varies by program) This is how points are earned and redeemed in credit card rewards programs: How points are earned and redeemed in credit card reward programs. The best credit card rewards programs have many different transfer partners, giving you maximum flexibility. ## Ways to redeem credit card reward points There are two broad ways to spend credit card rewards points: - **Direct redemptions** - points are redeemed for a reward directly through the credit card rewards program (e.g. gift vouchers, cashback or merchandise) - **Transfer the points to a frequent flyer or hotel program** - you'll then be able to redeem them for flights, upgrades or anything else through the airline or hotel's own loyalty program ## Direct redemption options As we'll discover in the next unit, there are around a dozen different credit card rewards programs in Australia. Most of them offer similar ways to spend your points. **If you want to use your points to book a flight, you'll almost always be better off transferring them to an airline frequent flyer program.** When booking a flight with credit card points, your points are just being converted to the cash fare price at a rate favourable to the bank. This is similar to a Qantas Points Plus Pay booking, which is also often poor value compared to booking a Classic Flight Reward. That said, not all direct redemptions give the same value for your points! We calculated the value of a point in each of the Australian credit card reward programs when redeemed for cashback, merchandise, gift cards and travel. As you can see from the results in the chart below, the average value of cashback rewards is poor compared to other direct redemption types: ## Why you should transfer points to an airline If you just want to "cash out" your credit card points for things like gift cards, it's probably better value to redeem directly with the bank. But if you wish to redeem your points for flights or upgrades, it's almost always better value to transfer points to a frequent flyer program and redeem through the partner airline. Here's an example of why it makes sense to transfer your points. Say, for example, you have points with AMEX Membership Rewards and you want to book a Virgin Australia Business Class flight from Sydney to Melbourne. You could redeem your points through the AMEX Travel portal and pay 63,800 AMEX points for Business. Example of an AMEX Rewards booking from Sydney to Melbourne on the AMEX website. AMEX Points transfer to Velocity Points at a 2:1 rate. But by transferring to Velocity and redeeming for the same flight in Business Class, you would still pay much less points. For example, you could book an Business reward seat on the 6.00 am departure for 22,900 Velocity Points, including taxes. That's equivalent to 45,800 AMEX Points. Screenshot of Sydney-Melbourne reward flights on Velocity website. Clearly, the real value lies in transferring your points to an airline frequent flyer program. Once the points have been transferred, you'll be able to reap the full value of your points by redeeming them for high-value rewards such as flights and upgrades! Such high-value rewards are virtually non-existent within credit card loyalty programs. However, beware that once you've transferred your credit card points to an airline, you can't transfer them back. So, we'd suggest only transferring points if you have an immediate redemption in mind (or otherwise, if there's a really good deal on transfers). We'll spend more time covering credit card point transfers in Course 3 of the AFF Training. ## Co-branded credit cards Some credit cards are co-branded, meaning they earn points exclusively with one loyalty program (whose logo is normally also on the card). This is usually a frequent flyer program, but could also be a hotel or supermarket loyalty program (e.g. Flybuys). With a co-branded credit card, the points earned for your credit card spend will automatically be deposited directly in your frequent flyer account (usually at the end of each month). This is how co-branded credit cards work: This may be simpler, but it's not always the best deal. For example, you may choose to use a co-branded Velocity Frequent Flyer card because you want to earn Velocity points. But most credit card rewards programs allow you to transfer points to Velocity anyway. By earning points with a credit card rewards program instead of directly with Velocity Frequent Flyer, you could *also *have the option to transfer your points to KrisFlyer, Asia Miles and other useful frequent flyer programs. You may also find that when you try to redeem your points, there is no award

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
