---
title: "Cheap Flight Strategies"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 08: Cheap Airfares &amp; Round-the-World Tickets"
module: "Find Cheap Flights"
---

# Cheap Flight Strategies

**Cheap Flight Strategies** This unit explores specific strategies to save serious money on flights. In this training unit, we will cover… ## The cheapest times to fly Airfare pricing is based on supply and demand. So, the cheapest time to fly is when nobody else wants to fly! As a general rule, you're more likely to get a cheap flight by flying on **Tuesdays or Wednesdays**. On domestic and short-haul routes, **Saturday nights and Sunday mornings** can also be cheaper. This is because business travellers tend to fly at the start and end of the week, while leisure travellers often go away for weekends. But not as many people want to fly during the week, and most leisure travellers making weekend trips will want to be at their destination already on Saturday evenings. You'll also get cheaper flights by **avoiding travel during school holidays, long weekends and public holidays**, as well as during major sporting and other events. Flying early in the morning, or late at night, may also work out cheaper because fewer people want to travel at these times. ## Flexibility is key Flexibility is the key to getting a cheaper flight... - **Search across multiple dates** to ensure you're getting the best deal. You never know - a flight the next day might be half the price! - You may also be able to reduce the price by **flying into our out of an alternative airport**. For example, you may consider the Gold Coast or Sunshine Coast airports in addition to Brisbane. If you're flying to Europe, look for flights to Paris, Manchester, Brussels and Amsterdam as well as London. - Don't forget to **think outside the box**! There may be airlines or left-field routings you hadn't considered that are available for a lower price. Things includes looking at itineraries that may involve two or three separate tickets. ## When to book So, those are the best times to travel. But when is the best time to book your flights? The majority of travellers book their flights less than 6 weeks in advance (although last-minute bookings are more common for short-haul than long-haul flights). Airlines also know that business travellers are more likely to book closer to the date of travel. That's why **flights are usually at their most expensive in the month leading up to the flight**! There are exceptions. For example, airlines may resort to heavy discounting on last-minute tickets if there is lots of "distressed inventory" (empty seats the airline doesn't think it will be able to sell). But this is unusual. As a general rule, the cheapest flights are available during sales. Most flights do go on sale at some point. It's just a matter of knowing when the sales are on, and planning ahead. For domestic, short-haul and medium-haul international routes, the best sales usually occur around **3-6 months in advance**. For long-haul flights, for example to Europe, Africa or the Americas, the best sales are often **up to 9 months in advance**. For long-haul international flights, the best discounts are sometimes those offered during early-bird sales. The best early bird sales usually occur in around September or October each year, for travel in the following year. So it's best to plan early! These early bird sales generally cover travel to Europe, but may also include the Americas and Africa. Return Economy flights to Europe can cost under $1,400 during a good early bird sale. This graph shows how a typical airfare might change over time, as the date of the flight draws closer: As you can see, **the cheapest time to book is usually around 3-6 months in advance**. As the date of the flight approaches, the price slowly increases. ## Don't book too late Don't leave it too late to book your flights! Airlines know that customers booking at the last minute are probably either desperate or business travellers, so they price last-minute flights accordingly. ## Don't book too early At the same time, it’s generally unnecessary to book an entire year in advance as you probably won't be getting the best price. Flights are not usually on sale immediately upon release. There is one exception: If you're planning to travel during a very **peak period**, such as Christmas or around a major sporting event, you're unlikely to ever find a sale fare as the flights are already in high demand. Those airfares will only go in one direction, and it's not down! In this instance, we would recommend booking well in advance. ## Airline sales You'll generally get the cheapest flights during a sale. So, it's wise to keep yourself informed about the best discounts! The easiest way to do this is to **subscribe to each of the major airlines' email newsletters**. Most airlines send out regular emails whenever a new sale is announced. Here are some quick airline email sign-up links: - For Qantas, sign up for Red Emails. - Virgin Australia sends out V-Mails. - For Jetstar, sign up for JetMail. Here are a few links to other airline mailing lists you may be interested in subscribing to: - Singapore Airlines - Air New Zealand - Qatar Airways - Emirates (scroll down to "subscribe to our special offers" at the bottom of the page) ## Weekly sales In addition to regular sales, Virgin Australia and Jetstar offer discounted airfares at specific times each week: - Virgin Australia's Happy Hour is from 4-11pm (AEDT) on Thursdays - Jetstar's Friday Fare Frenzy is from 4-8pm (AEDT) on Fridays Example of Virgin Australia Happy Hour sale fares. ## Jetstar Price Beat Guarantee If you're happy to fly with Jetstar, it's worth knowing about their price-beat guarantee! **Jetstar promises to beat any competitor's price by 10%**, provided various conditions are met. Price Beat bookings also have the benefit of **no credit card fees**. Here are the main conditions for Jetstar's Price Beat Guarantee: - The competitor's flight must depart within one hour of the Jetstar flight (or be on the same day for long-haul international flights) - The flight must depart and arrive at the same airports - The price must be publicly available online - You must book at least 7 days in advance Let's look at an example. On this particular date, a ticket on Jetstar's 7am flight from Melbourne to Brisbane would cost $199: Jetstar's 7am MEL-BNE flight costs $199. But a competing airline is selling tickets on a 6.05am flight on the same route and date for $79: Rex's 6.05am flight has seats available from $79. The Jetstar flight leaves within an hour of the competitor's flight. So using the Price Beat Guarantee, you could get a seat on the 7am Jetstar flight for 10% off $79, or just $71.10. That's less than half price - although the Jetstar ticket would not include checked baggage, which is included on the Rex ticket. (You can also use the guarantee against competitor tickets that don't include luggage.) As well as domestic flights, Jetstar's Price Beat is particularly useful for cheap flights to New Zealand, Bali, Singapore, and flights within Asia using Jetstar Asia or Jetstar Japan. See the Jetstar website for full terms & conditions or to make a Price Beat booking. ## Virgin Australia promo codes Here's another way to save 10% on flights. If you ever book a flight on Virgin Australia, you may be able to use a discount code. These codes are circulated regularly, and generally give 10% off any flights booked on the Virgin Australia website. The only real catch is that some codes may have advance purchase requirements or other restrictions. To apply the discount, simply enter the Promo Code when searching for flights on the Virgin Australia website. Insert your Promo code when searching for flights on the Virgin Australia website. View our current list of Virgin Australia promo codes ## How to save on one-way bookings One-way tickets on long-haul flights often cost more than return bookings. But if you need to buy a one-way ticket for any reason (e.g. returning from a cruise), there are a few ways to avoid paying too much! ## Add a return flight and "nest" the ticket One option, if you'll be flying in the opposite direction at some point within the next 12 months, is to just buy a return ticket and "nest" the return leg to use at a later time. You would just have to fly the return leg within 12 months. ## Book an open-jaw ticket If you'll be flying into one city and back from somewhere else, it may not be necessary to buy one-way tickets at all if your airline offers open-jaw fares. For example, Qantas may offer you a good price on a ticket from Sydney to Tokyo, returning from Hong Kong to Sydney. See below for more on nesting and open-jaw tickets. ## Redeem frequent flyer points Most frequent flyer programs do not charge any penalty for one-way award bookings. Even if you don't have enough frequent flyer points in your account, you could always buy some from one of the programs featured in our course on Buying Points. It may work out cheaper than buying a ticket. ## Fly a low-cost airline Low-cost airlines also don't penalise customers for one-way bookings. If you're flying to North America, for example, you could consider flying to Hawaii with Jetstar. From Hawaii, you could easily pick up a cheap one-way flight to your final destination in the United States or Canada. A common strategy to get cheap one-way flights to the USA is to fly Jetstar to Hawaii. Photo: Matt Graham. For flights to Asia, you'll have a range of low-cost options on airlines like Jetstar, AirAsia X, Scoot, Vietjet Air, Citilink and Cebu Pacific. Or, if you're heading to Europe, you could fly low-cost to Asia and then pick up a cheap onward flight on a low-cost airline such as Scoot. ## Ticketing tricks Here are some other tricks you can use to save money on airfares... ## Open-jaw tickets The first trick is to buy an **open-jaw ticket**. This is where you fly into one airport, then return from a different airport. For example, you might fly from London to Amsterdam and then return from Paris back to London. The journey from Amsterdam to Paris is a surface sector (e.g. travelling by car or train). It's called "open jaw" because it literally looks like an open jaw when you plot the routing on a map: Open jaw tickets are great because they let you visit two cities for the price of one. They're often the same price - sometimes even cheaper - than a return flight departing from the same city! There are many practical uses for open-jaw tickets. For example, if you fly to New Zealand, you might wish to arrive into Auckland and depart from Wellington. This usually costs no extra. And if you're travelling to the UK, departing Europe from somewhere outside the UK is a good way to avoid the UK's departure tax. ## Nesting tickets Nesting tickets allows you to take full advantage of the lower prices available in different markets. This works where it's much cheaper to buy return airfares originating in your destination country than your home country. For example, it can be much cheaper to buy return tickets from Europe to Australia than in the other direction from Australia to Europe. Basically, this strategy involves booking return tickets from your destination, and "nesting" the return leg to use as the start of your next trip. As most plane tickets need to be used within 12 months, this only works if you travel to the same destination at least once per year. You would of course need to buy a one-way ticket to get to your destination in the first place. Alternatively, nest the return leg of that original ticket to use up to a year into the future. ## Combining tickets This next strategy could save you thousands of

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
