---
title: "Introduction to Hotel Loyalty Programs"
category: learning
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 09: Hotel, Supermarket &amp; Car Hire Loyalty Programs"
module: "Hotel Loyalty Programs"
---

# Introduction to Hotel Loyalty Programs

**Introduction to Hotel Loyalty Programs** If you stay often in hotels, you can benefit enormously from hotel loyalty programs. Earn and redeem point towards free nights and room upgrades, or transfer your points to an airline. Hotel status can also be extremely useful - and it's easy to get. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Welcome to our "Hotel, Supermarket & Car Hire Loyalty Programs" course So far, the Australian Frequent Flyer training has covered airline frequent flyer programs. But the airlines don't have a monopoly on loyalty programs! There are other types of loyalty programs out there with useful benefits for travellers. Just like with frequent flyer programs, other loyalty programs have their own quirks and sweet spots. In this course, we'll show you where the value lies and how to maximise your returns in different types of loyalty programs. Travel isn't just about flying. By taking advantage of these programs you can drastically improve your *entire* travel experience. This course covers: ModuleType of programPrograms covered1Hotel loyalty programsAccor Live Limitless, Hilton Honors, IHG One Rewards, Marriott Bonvoy, World of Hyatt, Radisson Rewards, Choice Privileges & Best Western Rewards2Supermarket loyalty programsFlybuys & Everyday Rewards3Car hire loyalty programsHertz Gold Plus Rewards, Europcar Privilege & SIXT Cards We begin by looking at hotel loyalty programs... ## Hotel brands What do Ibis, Sofitel, Novotel, Pullman and Mercure hotels all have in common? All of these hotel brands are owned by Accor and they're all part of the Accor Live Limitless (ALL) loyalty program! In fact, all of the following hotel brands are part of Accor's portfolio: Accor hotel brands. The major hotel loyalty programs are shown below. Do you know which hotel brands are part of each loyalty program? How many hotel loyalty program brands do you recognise? Most hotel companies start out with a single brand, such as Hilton, Marriott or Hyatt. But as these companies grow over time, they add new brands to their portfolio. Each new brand is designed to cater to different types of travellers, ranging from budget hotels to high-end luxury resorts. Many hotel companies now own more than a dozen different hotel brands. In most cases, all of the hotel brands in a company's portfolio will share a common hotel loyalty program. This gives members of hotel loyalty programs plenty of choices. ## How hotel loyalty programs work Even if you only stay in hotels a few times per year, you can benefit by earning points and from the benefits given to base-level members of the hotel's loyalty program. Most hotels offer discounts, priority check-in, free premium internet, and sometimes even a welcome gift or late check-out to entry-level members with no status. And if you happen to stay frequently, you'll receive many more benefits when reaching a higher status tier. How you can benefit from hotel loyalty programs. Every time you stay in a hotel that participates in your hotel chain's loyalty program, you can earn points. (You can also earn hotel loyalty points by hiring cars and through some credit cards.) Each hotel loyalty program works a bit differently, but you can generally redeem your points for free hotel nights or room upgrades, among other things. You'll also have the option to convert your points to an airline frequent flyer program. The vast majority of hotel points can be transferred to either Qantas or Velocity Frequent Flyer, as well as many overseas airline programs. Hotel programs can also be a great way to build up points in some of the high-value overseas programs. ## Earning points Most hotel loyalty programs award points for every dollar spent on stays at any hotel in the chain's portfolio of brands. The exact earn rate varies by program, hotel and your status level. The number of points you'll earn is usually based on US dollars. But one French program, Accor Live Limitless, uses Euros as its base currency. When paying in a currency other than US dollars, the amount will generally be converted to US dollars based on the exchange rate on the date that you check out. Some programs award points on the base hotel rate only. Others include any taxes or additional charges (such as minibar or parking fees) paid. This is an important distinction as you may receive substantially fewer points with programs that give points only on the base room rate. There are several other possible ways to earn hotel points: - Transfer points from a credit card rewards program (e.g. you can transfer Amex Membership Rewards points to Marriott Bonvoy or Hilton Honors) - Hiring a car from car rental program partners - Buying points from the hotel (see Course 6 for information on buying points) ## Hotel status Just like airlines, hotels too offer elite status tiers that are completely separate to earning & redeeming points. These are designed to reward loyal customers and keep them coming back to the hotel chain's brands. Here are some of the common benefits of hotel elite status: The requirements for earning hotel status vary by program. In the next unit, we'll show you exactly how to earn status, and what each status level receives, for each program. But the most common requirements are either to: - Stay a minimum number of nights in a year, or - Complete a minimum number of stays in a year, or - Spend a minimum amount in a year, or - Earn a minimum number of points in a year, or - Hold a certain type of credit card. Some programs require a lower number of stays than nights to earn status. Some people take advantage of this by completing lots of single-night stays. In more extreme cases, people may even undertake "mattress runs" where they change hotels every day. Of course, this is not convenient for most people. But it is one possible shortcut if you want to reach that next status level quicker. In general, it is easier to earn hotel status than airline status. Many credit cards give away hotel status as a value-added benefit, and hotel loyalty programs are very liberal when it comes to status matches! We'll cover hotel program status shortcuts later in this course. All of the programs we'll be looking at are free to join, so it's worth signing up! ## Beware of third-party hotel bookings Hotel bookings made on third-party websites (such as Expedia or Qantas Hotels) are usually ineligible for earning points. In addition, these bookings do not count towards status attainment. And if you already hold status with the hotel, you may find your stay is ineligible to receive the benefits of that status. Almost all hotels have this policy, except Radisson hotels. They want customers to book direct because third-party booking websites take up to 20% commission on hotel bookings! You'll often get the best price by booking directly on the hotel's own website anyway. If you do happen to find a cheaper rate elsewhere, **check if the hotel has a "best rate guarantee"**. Alternatively, just call the hotel and ask if they'll match the competitor's rate. They want you to book direct, so they often will. ## Redeeming points You can either redeem hotel loyalty points directly within the loyalty program, e.g. for free hotel nights, room upgrades or gift vouchers, **or** indirectly by transferring them to an airline. This is similar to how credit card reward points can be spent. ## Direct redemptions **The best way to redeem hotel points is usually for free hotel nights.** And unlike when booking reward flights, hotel award nights generally don't attract any cash co-payment. Some hotel loyalty programs have award charts, similar to airline award charts, that show the number of points needed for a free night. Award rooms are subject to availability. Other programs use dynamic pricing, where the number of points needed is loosely tied to the cash price for a room. This works a bit like Points Plus Pay flight redemptions. While the value may or may not be as good under this system, the advantage is that there are often fewer blackout dates on award nights. Using hotel points, you could book some of the world's best five-star hotels without spending a cent of real money. So there is plenty of value to be had! You could redeem World of Hyatt points to stay at Park Hyatt Sydney. Photo: Hyatt. Some hotel programs, such as World of Hyatt, also let you use points towards room upgrades. Most programs also allow you to cash in your points for things like gift vouchers, merchandise or cash back. These are generally low value rewards, and a poor use of points! **We don't recommend that you waste your points on vouchers** unless the alternative would be letting your points expire. ## Transferring points to an airline If you wish to redeem your points for flights or flight upgrades, transferring to an airline may be a good option. One of the great benefits of hotel loyalty programs is that most partner with dozens of different airlines! So you can transfer to any program you like - including valuable programs that don't otherwise offer an easy way to earn points in Australia! ## Hotel categories **Some hotel loyalty programs use a category-based system** for pricing reward nights. There are thousands of different hotels participating in each program, and each hotel is different. So, each hotel is placed into a category which determines the cost of a redemption. Here's an example of a hotel loyalty program award chart: World of Hyatt's standard award night chart. Category classifications are specific to individual hotels, meaning the same brand of hotel could cost a different number of points to another hotel from the same brand in a different city. Category 1 hotels are lower-end hotels that typically offer fewer amenities. In theory, the higher category hotels will therefore be of a higher quality or in more "premium" locations. The number of categories used varies by program, but most have 6-10 categories. It would be rare for a hotel chain to change the number of points required for redemptions in each category. However, it's quite common that individual hotels may be moved up to the next category. If this happens, you would need to spend more points to redeem a night at that hotel. This is an easy way for the hotel programs to disguise devaluations, as very few people notice these kinds of minor changes. Hotel chains typically make adjustments to hotel categories at least once a year. Some programs use a revenue-based award system instead. For example, Accor ALL has no hotel categories but lets you redeem 2,000 points in exchange for a €40 (~AU$65) discount on hotel rooms. There are also some programs that no longer use award charts at all, meaning prices for reward nights are dynamic. IHG One Rewards and Marriott Bonvoy are two examples of programs that are now doing this. IHG One Rewards redemptions use dynamic pricing. Screenshot from the IHG website. ## Finding reward night availability The MaxMyPoint website can help you to find great-value hotel night redemptions with the major hotel loyalty programs. Rooms.aero, from the makers of seats.aero, also lets you search for hotel reward night availability in real time. ## Alternatives to hotel loyalty programs If you don't stay enough to earn hotel status, and aren't interested in earning hotel points, there are alternatives to hotel loyalty programs! Although you won't earn any hotel program points by booking via a third-party website, there may be other rewards on offer. Here are a few booking websites worth noting: ## Rocketmiles Rocketmiles offers large amounts of points for hotel bookings made on their website. The points on offer are generally much higher than you'd get for booking elsewhere. Rocketmiles also partners with a wide range of airline programs including Virgin Australia Velocity, KrisFlyer, American Airlines AAdvantage, Virgin Atlantic Flying Club and Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan. The major downside is that you'll often pay more to

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
