---
title: "Transits &amp; Stopovers"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 08: Cheap Airfares &amp; Round-the-World Tickets"
module: "Find Cheap Flights"
---

# Transits &amp; Stopovers

**Transits & Stopovers** Discover the benefits of extended transits – including how to score a free hotel for the night! In this training unit, we will cover… ## Transits vs stopovers One way to add value to your plane tickets is to add a long transit or stopover. If you're flying long-haul, breaking up the trip can be a great way to reduce the jetlag and arrive feeling more refreshed. It's also a great way to see more of the world. Stopping over means you that you get to visit another country that you wouldn't have otherwise had the opportunity to. In some cases, the airline will even pay for your hotel and meals! Before we get started, you'll need to be familiar with the terms "transit" and "stopover". These terms are often used interchangeably, but there is an important difference: - **By definition, a transit is a break between flights of up to 24 hours** - **Stopovers are more than 24 hours**. ## Extended transits Booking extended transits can be a clever way to get around ticketing rules that don't allow free stopovers. **You can see a lot of a city - or simply have a good rest between flights - on a transit of 23 hours!** Many airlines charge extra for stopovers, but a transit is just connecting to another flight. Even if the transit is 23 hours and 55 minutes, you normally won't pay any extra taxes or a higher airfare. In the below example, there is a stop in Sydney between flights of more than 22 hours. The award is priced as though it was a through-booking from Auckland to Perth. (If the stop in Sydney was over 24 hours, it would be priced at 83,000 Qantas points - that's 41,500 points for each individual sector.) ## Stopovers on award bookings You might even be eligible for a free stopover when flying on points! Different frequent flyer programs have different rules when it comes to frequent flyer redemptions. Some programs allow a certain number of stopovers, and even open-jaws on award bookings. Unfortunately, others (including Qantas Frequent Flyer and Virgin Australia Velocity) do not allow stopovers at all. For programs that specifically do not allow stopovers, the only way to squeeze in an extended stop is to pay for two separate tickets – or take advantage of the transit loophole by utilising very long connections. Most of frequent flyer programs, including both of Australia’s main programs, do not allow stopovers on award bookings. But **the following programs do allow stopovers on award bookings**: - **Air Canada** Aeroplan allows you to add a stopover to any one-way award booking for 5,000 points, except on itineraries within North America. - **Alaska Airlines** generally allows stopovers at the hub of the airline being flown. This includes the hubs of any of Alaska's partner airlines, such as Hong Kong (Cathay Pacific), Dubai (Emirates), Tokyo (Japan Airlines - excluding intra-Asia itineraries) and Sydney (Qantas). - **All Nippon Airways** allows up to 3 stopovers and 1 open-jaw on return award tickets. - **American Airlines** permits one stopover only at one of AA's US hub airports (in Los Angeles, New York, Dallas, Chicago or Miami). - **Emirates** allows one en-route stopover on Flex awards. - **Korean Air** permits stopovers in Seoul on awards where all travel is on Korean Air. - **Lufthansa** allows 2 stopovers *and *2 open-jaws on return awards. - **Singapore Airlines** allows one free stopover on round-trip Saver awards, or on one-way Advantage awards. You can get free stopovers in each direction on round-trip Advantage awards. - **Thai Airways** permits one stopover in each direction *and *one open-jaw at either the point of turnaround or the origin. - **United Airlines** offers an "Excursionist Perk", which is a free one-way award within the destination region on round-trip award bookings. - Although **Qantas** does not permit stopovers on regular Classic Flight Reward bookings, Qantas does permit up to five stopovers on Oneworld Classic Flight Rewards. ## Many airlines offer free stopovers on paid bookings Stopovers are a great way to break up your trip and enjoy a longer stay in another city en-route to your destination. Many airlines offer free stopovers in their hub cities. Plus, some airlines even offer discounted hotels and holiday packages to stopover passengers! Most of the time, stopping over will cost just a little bit extra. Some airlines might impose a small surcharge but often you'll just pay any difference in taxes. Some even use stopovers as a marketing tool and actively encourage passengers to stop over in the airline's home country. Perhaps the most famous example of this is Icelandair. This airline connects many cities in Europe and North America via its Reykjavik hub, and Iceland Stopovers are a core part of the airline's marketing. Icelandair offers free stopovers in Iceland. Photo: Jonatan Pie on Unsplash. If you fly between Europe and North America on Icelandair, you can stopover in Iceland for up to 7 days, for absolutely no cost. In fact, if you're coming from anywhere in the UK, a stopover will actually *reduce* the cost of your ticket by around $100! This is due to a reduction in the UK departure tax. Many other airlines will allow you to stopover for little to no cost at their hub airport. Depending on the airline, you're probably going to have to fly via the airline's hub anyway. So why not spend a few days there and enjoy a second holiday? To stopover for more than 24 hours in one place, simply use the multi-city booking tool on the relevant airline's website. To see how much extra you're paying for the stopover, get a second quote for a through-booking and compare the difference in price. Often, the only difference will be a small adjustment in taxes. If in doubt about whether stopovers are allowed and how much they cost, check your ticket's fare rules. ## Discounted stopover holiday packages Some airlines actively encourage their passengers to stopover in their respective hub cities by providing discounted hotels, holiday packages and/or complimentary transit visas (where applicable). Most of these airlines are government-owned or controlled, offering discounted stopovers in order to boost tourism... which is a good thing for customers! ## Etihad Airways (Abu Dhabi) The stopover itself may or may not be free; it depends what the multi-city booking tool spits out. However, Etihad has easy-to-book and attractive stopover packages including a free night of accommodation and 2-for-1 deals. - **Essential Abu Dhabi Stopover** – This package includes hotel accommodation and 2-for-1 deals on attractions and tours. The first night of hotel accommodation is free, and subsequent nights start at the heavily reduced rate of USD36 per night. There is a minimum stay of 2 nights and the offer is only available to adults over 21 travelling on return tickets, flying on Etihad and/or a partner. Not available for award bookings. - **Premium Stopovers** – Etihad Airways customers flying business class with a stopover in Abu Dhabi are eligible for 1 night of free 5-star accommodation in Abu Dhabi or Dubai, including limousine transfers and breakfast. First class customers can receive 2 free nights. - **Complimentary Visa Stopover** – the same as the Essential Stopover, but Etihad will provide a complimentary UAE visa (provided visa conditions are met). Prices vary slightly. Note that Australians are entitled to a free visa on arrival in the UAE, so this option is somewhat superfluous for Australians. Stopover packages can be easily booked online through the Etihad Airways website, or through a travel agent. The Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Emirates (Dubai) Emirates not only offers free stopovers, but also heavily discounted stopover packages including hotels, transfers, complimentary breakfast and complimentary visas (if required) for customers stopping over up to 36 hours in Dubai. Prices currently start from just USD$48 per person per night (for a three-star hotel) but vary based on the hotel. 5-star hotels start from just USD70 per night (e.g. for the Crown Plaza Dubai Deira). Tours and other activities can also be booked for an additional fee. The Emirates stopover package can only be booked through an Emirates office or travel agent, after the booking is confirmed and paid. Bookings also need to be made at least 48 hours in advance, though Emirates advises booking well in advance. ## Qatar Airways (Doha) Qatar Airways offers discounted stopover packages for 1-4 nights to passengers transiting through Doha. During special promotions, Qatar Airways has also previously offered free hotel accommodation for 1 night. You must book online in advance. Find out more on the Qatar Airways website. ## Other Airlines - Air Astana (Almaty & Astana) - Air India (Delhi) - Copa Airlines (Panama City) - Oman Air (Muscat) Astana, Kazakhstan. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Stopovers paid by carrier (STPC) If you choose to take a longer connection between flights than the shortest available, you will generally be responsible for organising your own accommodation. But under some circumstances, particularly when the shortest available connection is between 8-24 hours, **the airline may provide you with free hotel accommodation, meals and airport transfers**! Some airlines even provide city tours free of charge. This is known as a "Stopover Paid by Carrier", or **STPC** for short. No airline is legally obliged to provide you with a free hotel. Not all airlines adhere to this policy, and some put special conditions in place to limit its use. But with the airlines that do choose to provide this service, it's a great benefit. Most of the airlines that offer STPCs are based in Asia, the Middle East or Europe. Australian and American airlines don't usually offer this. ## STPC eligibility criteria The **standard Stopover Paid by Carrier (STPC) eligibility criteria**, which may vary by airline, is as follows: - You must be booked on the shortest available connection, and the connection time generally needs to be at least 8 hours, with a maximum of 24 hours. So, if you choose to take a flight requiring a longer transit where shorter connections were available, it will be your own responsibility to cover costs. - You should be connecting from an international flight, to another international flight arriving in a third country. - Airlines have the right to impose other conditions, such as a minimum fare paid or minimum class of travel. - Frequent flyer redemption/award tickets are usually **not **eligible. - Passengers generally need to be at least 18 years of age. **Additional information to be aware of:** - If you will need a visa for your transit, it is generally your own responsibility to pay for/organise this. However, some airlines will assist you with this. - Some airlines (e.g. Turkish Airlines) offer free city tours in lieu of accommodation. - Some airlines require you to book your free stopover at least a week in advance. Other airlines will provide accommodation without prior booking. Check with your airline. - If you book with a travel agent, the agent should be able to request a STPC for you. A good travel agent will be aware of each airline’s policy. (If they have never heard of an STPC, it might be time to look for a new travel agent!) - Some airlines have limited a STPC allocation and/or blackout periods. - You will generally not have access to your checked luggage during the overnight stop. - It is up to the airline to decide which hotel to accommodate you at. They do not have to tell you where this will be ahead of time, though most airlines stick to one or a select few hotels. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Airlines that offer STPC Airlines that may offer STPC on long connections include: - Air Canada (Vancouver, Toronto, Montreal) - Air China (Beijing, Chengdu, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Tianjin, Chongqing) - Asiana (Seoul) - Biman Airlines (Dhaka) - China Eastern (Shanghai, Kunming, Xi’an) - China Southern (Guangzhou) - Czech Airlines (Prague) - Egypt Air (Cairo) -

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
