---
title: "Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 03: Transferring &amp; Redeeming Points"
module: "Transferring Points to Overseas Airlines"
---

# Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer

**Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer** KrisFlyer is one of the world's best value frequent flyer programs! Find out how to earn and redeem KrisFlyer miles, and what makes this program so special. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Why KrisFlyer? The Qantas and Velocity Frequent Flyer programs are good. But they aren't your only options! KrisFlyer is the loyalty program of Singapore Airlines, and it's one of the most popular international frequent flyer programs for Australians. There's good reason for this. In our view, KrisFlyer is one of the world's best frequent flyer programs. Here are some of the key reasons for this: - Premium cabin redemptions are not *just* **excellent value**… but there is **plenty of award availability** on Singapore Airlines (and Star Alliance partners). Award bookings from Australia to Asia, Europe, Africa and the Middle East are especially good value. - You can transfer points earned on many Australian credit cards into KrisFlyer. So, it's **easy to accrue KrisFlyer miles in Australia** through credit card spend. - Singapore Airlines is a **partner of Virgin Australia**, and you can even transfer points between the Velocity & KrisFlyer programs. - You can add a **free stopover** on many KrisFlyer award bookings. - There are **no fuel or carrier surcharges** when redeeming KrisFlyer miles for Singapore Airlines flights (although fuel surcharges for travel on some partner airlines are passed on). - With KrisFlyer Spontaneous Escapes, you can get **30% off selected last-minute awards every month**. - You can easily **waitlist** for flights that don't currently have award seats available (although, there's no guarantee that your waitlist will clear). Singapore Airlines Economy Class. Photo: Singapore Airlines. Singapore Airlines itself is a world-class airline with exceptional service. It has a competitive frequent flyer program to match... although there are also a few disadvantages. These are some of the main downsides to using the KrisFlyer program: - KrisFlyer **miles expire after 3 years**, regardless of your account activity - It is **not possible to transfer miles between KrisFlyer accounts** (except up to 50,000/year from your own child's account, for a fee, via KrisFlyer for Families) - Elite Miles (which count towards status) are NOT earned for Virgin Australia flights, unless flying on a "SQ" codeshare - Upgrades are one-class only (and not that great value) You may redeem your own KrisFlyer miles to book flights for yourself and up to 5 "redemption nominees" on your account, who could be anyone. ## Key facts: KrisFlyer - **Airline:** Singapore Airlines - **Currency:** KrisFlyer miles - **Alliance:** Star Alliance - **Status** is earned by accumulating Elite Miles - **Status levels:** Elite Silver, Elite Gold, PPS Club, Solitaire PPS Club - **KrisFlyer miles expire** 3 years after they are earned - It is not possible to transfer miles to another KrisFlyer account, except from a linked child's account for a fee - **Our program rating:** 4.5/5 ## Earning KrisFlyer miles KrisFlyer miles (and Elite Miles) can be when flying on eligible fare classes on Singapore Airlines or any Star Alliance airline. KrisFlyer miles can also be earned when flying with partners including Scoot, Virgin Australia, Alaska Airlines, Vistara, JetBlue or Olympic Air. Alaska Airlines is a partner of Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer. Photo: Alaska Airlines. But the easiest way to earn KrisFlyer miles within Australia is through credit cards. You can transfer points from most Australian credit card reward programs to KrisFlyer. This is covered in detail in our Credit Cards & Airport Lounges course. Other ways for Australians to earn KrisFlyer miles include: - Transferring points from Velocity Frequent Flyer into KrisFlyer - Transferring points from a hotel loyalty program - Renting a vehicle from KrisFlyer's car hire partners - Transferring PayRewards points (earned by paying bills with pay.com.au) - Transferring Heathrow Rewards points - Linking your Quandoo account and booking restaurant tables - Booking a tour with Viator - Shopping with KrisShop - Using Kris+ See the Singapore Airlines website for a full list of ways to earn KrisFlyer miles. ## Redeeming KrisFlyer miles KrisFlyer miles can be redeemed for travel on Singapore Airlines or any other Star Alliance airline. The following airlines are in Star Alliiance: KrisFlyer miles can also be redeemed for travel on the following partner airlines: - Alaska Airlines - Juneyao Airlines - Scoot (with dynamic pricing) - Virgin Australia - Vistara Prices for award bookings are based on geographical zones, as set out in the KrisFlyer award charts. There is one chart for travel on Singapore Airlines, and another for travel on Star Alliance partners. Virgin Australia and other non-Star Alliance partners also have their own individual award charts. Any itinerary that includes a combination of travel on Singapore Airlines (Saver Awards only) and Star Alliance is priced according to the Star Alliance award chart. You can view the applicable award charts on the Singapore Airlines website. Here are the main ones: - Singapore Airlines award chart - Star Alliance award chart - Virgin Australia award chart The KrisFlyer Star Alliance award chart (click on the image to view a larger version). All Star Alliance awards are priced at the Saver level. But when redeeming miles to fly with Singapore Airlines, awards are offered at two pricing levels: Saver and Advantage. Saver Awards are cheaper, but fewer seats are made available at the Saver level than Advantage. Saver Awards also have more restrictive stopover conditions and are less flexible. In general, it would almost always make sense to book awards at the Saver level if there is availability. But Advantage awards are another option if Saver awards are only available on "waitlist" (which is a euphemism to say that there is currently no availability). Screenshot from the Singapore Airlines website. In this example, there is no Business Saver availability on SQ216, but there is on SQ224. Singapore Airlines does not impose fuel surcharges on KrisFlyer award bookings for Singapore Airlines flights. Fuel surcharges imposed by some partner airlines are passed on when making partner airline award bookings. ## Award sweet spots The following KrisFlyer awards are particularly good value: - **Business and First class flights from Australia to Asia and Europe.** For example, a round-trip Business Saver redemption from Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane or Adelaide to Europe would cost between 261,000 and 265,000 KrisFlyer miles (plus taxes). From Perth or Darwin, the price is only 239,000 to 265,000 KrisFlyer miles round-trip when flying with Singapore Airlines and/or Star Alliance, respectively. You could even stopover in Singapore for free in one direction (for up to 30 days) if you wanted to. (By comparison, the same redemption with Qantas Frequent Flyer would cost between 289,200 and 318,000 Qantas points, with likely much higher taxes & carrier charges and less award availability to choose from as well.) Singapore Airlines A380 Business Class. Photo: Singapore Airlines. - **Awards from Australia to the "Middle East & North Africa" zone** are superb value and considerably cheaper than flying to "Europe". This zone includes travel to Dubai, as well as places like Istanbul, Casablanca, Marrakech, Tbilisi, Larnaca and Tel Aviv which are within easy reach of Europe. - Flights from Australia to North America and are fair value but you'll generally only find award availability via Asia. Occasionally you might find seats on Air Canada, although United & Air New Zealand availability is rare in the premium cabins. You may travel to the USA via Europe for the same price as flying directly across the Pacific Ocean. - **Flights from Australia to New Zealand and the Pacific Islands** are fair value, costing 13,500 miles one-way in Economy or 34,500 miles in Business Class. This includes routes like Perth-Auckland or Melbourne-Auckland-Papeete. Note that availability on Air New Zealand is rare in premium cabins. Air New Zealand Boeing 787-9 Economy Class. Photo: Matt Graham. - Awards **from Europe to the Middle East** on Star Alliance partners are great value at 33,500 miles one-way in Business Class. EgyptAir Boeing 737-800 Business Class. Photo: Matt Graham. - As KrisFlyer uses zone-based redemptions, many **long intra-zone flights** are good value. - **Some redemptions on Virgin Australia** are particularly good value. For example, any redemption within QLD, NSW, VIC, TAS, ACT and SA costs a fixed 12,000 miles in Economy or 23,500 miles in Business (one-way). For certain longer routes, such as Melbourne-Cairns or Hobart-Townsville, this may work out cheaper than using Velocity points. Plus, a stopover can be added for free on KrisFlyer round-trip awards. KrisFlyer redemptions on Virgin Australia can be good value. Photo: Virgin Australia. ## An example of a KrisFlyer "sweet spot" in action Below is an example of the "Europe to Middle East" sweet spot in action. This is also a great example of how to exploit the quirks in region-based award charts! If you look closely at KrisFlyer's Star Alliance award chart, you'll notice that award tickets within Europe cost more miles than awards between Europe and the "Middle East/North Africa" zone. For example, it would cost 34,500 KrisFlyer miles (plus taxes & charges) to fly Lufthansa from Paris to Frankfurt: It costs 34,500 KrisFlyer miles to fly Business Class from Paris to Frankfurt. Screenshot from the Singapore Airlines website. Yet, you could fly from Paris to Frankfurt, with a connecting flight onwards to Kuwait, for *fewer* miles! Never mind the fact that you're flying 10 times further ;) KrisFlyer charges 33,500 miles for a Business Class redemption from Paris to Kuwait. Screenshot from the Singapore Airlines website. Admittedly, not everyone wants to fly to Kuwait. But the exact same trick works from anywhere in Europe to anywhere else in the Middle East, Caucasus or North Africa including Dubai, Doha, Amman, Cairo, Tbilisi, Istanbul and many other destinations. ## How to book KrisFlyer award tickets Simple one-way or round-trip award bookings, for travel on Singapore Airlines and some partner airlines, can be booked on the Singapore Airlines website. Log into your KrisFlyer account and search for the flights you want from the home page, selecting "Redeem flights": Select "Redeem flights" to search for award seats on the Singapore Airlines website. By default, the results page on the Singapore Airlines website will only display award flights operated by Singapore Airlines. But you can display Star Alliance awards, or flights on other partner airlines (Virgin Australia or Vistara), by selecting these options at the top of the search results page: Select "Show flights for Star Alliance" when searching on the Singapore Airlines website to display award options on other Star Alliance airlines. Complex Star Alliance awards and some itineraries with additional stopovers **cannot** be booked online. Flights on the following KrisFlyer partner airlines also generally do not display on the Singapore Airlines website: - Air Canada - Alaska Airlines - Austrian - Avianca - Copa Airlines - Ethiopian Airlines - Juneyao Airlines If you can't book online, call Singapore Airlines on **+61 2 7209 4388** (from within Australia). ## KrisFlyer Spontaneous Escapes In the second half of each month, Singapore Airlines releases a list of routes where you can book KrisFlyer Saver Awards for the following month in Economy, Business Class and sometimes also Premium Economy for 30% fewer miles. These can be great for booking last-minute flights as Australian routes are often featured (outside of peak school holiday periods). See the Singapore Airlines website for the most recent Spontaneous Escapes routes. Where available, these discounted award flights can be booked on the Singapore Airlines website and are marked as "Promo". Note that Spontaneous Escapes bookings are non-refundable. Award seats discounted through a KrisFlyer Spontaneous Escapes deal are marked as "Promo" awards on the Singapore Airlines website. ## Award routing rules Key KrisFlyer award routing rules are as follows: - One-way redemptions are allowed and cost half the number of miles of a round-trip flight. - One stopover of up to 30 days is allowed on round-trip Saver award bookings. It is no longer possible to pay for stopovers on one-way Saver awards, nor additional stopovers on round-trip Saver awards. - One free stopover per direction is allowed on Singapore Airlines Advantage

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
