---
title: "The Science of Airfares"
category: redemptions
programs: [qantas]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 08: Cheap Airfares &amp; Round-the-World Tickets"
module: "Find Cheap Flights"
---

# The Science of Airfares

**The Science of Airfares** Understanding how airfare prices work will help you to score the cheapest flights! In this training unit, we will cover… ## How supply & demand affects pricing You might have noticed that airfares are not based on the distance of the flight. That would be far too logical! ;) In reality, prices go up and down all the time. In fact, it's possible that every single passenger on a given flight will have paid a different price for their ticket! Ultimately, the airlines will price airfares in whatever way they think will make them the most money. It all comes down to supply and demand. How airfares are affected by supply and demand. Prices tend to be the highest on routes with no competition (low supply). Airfares are also higher during peak travel periods such as school holidays, Christmas and during major sporting events due to high demand. It works both ways. Ticket prices may also be *reduced* during periods of low demand, or if there is excess supply. In these cases, airlines must price their fares competitively, or risk not selling any seats. The principles of supply and demand will almost always apply to airfare pricing. But there may be many other factors at play in determining the cost of your ticket. This unit explores some of the other factors that impact on airfare prices. ## The effect of competition The effect of competition on airfare pricing cannot be underestimated. Have a look at these Qantas airfares, for example: Qantas Economy airfares from Sydney to Singapore. Qantas airfares from Sydney to Lord Howe Island. You'll notice that a Qantas flight from Sydney to Lord Howe Island is more expensive than a flight from Sydney to Singapore. Yet, Singapore is **8 times further** from Sydney than Lord Howe Island! The main reason for this is a **lack of competition** on flights to Lord Howe Island - a small and isolated destination. (In fact, Qantas has a monopoly on this route which is guaranteed by the NSW government.) Admittedly, flying to Lord Howe Island does come with challenges that make operating there expensive on a per-kilometre basis. But Qantas is virtually free to charge whatever they like. As long as passengers are prepared to pay what they're charging, there is no incentive for the airline to lower its prices. By contrast, there are many airlines flying between Sydney and Singapore with multiple flights on large aircraft every day. So airlines on this route must compete on price. ## Market pricing Another factor is the effect of market pricing. This is where airlines push prices up or down, according to what they think customers in specific markets (i.e. countries) are willing to pay. Here are two identical, return flights between Italy and the United States **in the same booking class**. A round-trip **departing from New York** would cost USD1,042, but the same itinerary **departing from Rome** costs almost half that: Screenshots from ITA Matrix website. Here's another example of an airfare pricing anomaly. On a random date that we searched, the cheapest available return flights from Sydney to Abu Dhabi on Etihad Airways cost $1,782: Screenshot from Google Flights. But flights on the exact same dates from Melbourne to Zurich - *via Abu Dhabi* - are cheaper than this: Screenshot from Google Flights. The reason for this is a mixture of both competition and market pricing. There are dozens of different airlines competing in the Australia to Europe market. These airlines fly via their own hubs – many of which are in Asia – but they are still competing with Etihad. So, Etihad must price its airfares from Australia to Europe accordingly. But Etihad Airways is the only airline flying non-stop between Australia and Abu Dhabi. This is reflected in the higher price. It's also worth noting that the market between Australia and the Middle East is less price sensitive. The majority of passengers travelling to the United Arab Emirates as a final destination may be travelling on business, rather than for a vacation. This kind of market pricing is certainly not unique to Etihad. Emirates and Qatar Airways also charge more to fly to the Middle East than they do to fly to Europe – *via *the Middle East! ## The "Four Cs" of cheap airfares While market pricing *can *work against you, it can also work very much in your favour! Airfares - especially in premium cabins - are much cheaper when originating in certain countries! Some of the cheapest places to buy airfares are known to frequent flyers as the "four C's": - Cairo (Egypt) - Colombo (Sri Lanka) - Cape Town (South Africa) - Casablanca (Morocco) The "Four C's" of cheap premium airfares Business and First Class tickets originating in these cities can be excellent value. You can also use these cities to start a round-the-world trip and, in some cases, save thousands! This strategy is discussed in more detail in our unit on round-the-world airfares. Other countries where you can often get cheaper premium cabin airfares from include: - The Philippines - Indonesia - Thailand - Scandinavian countries - Japan ## Hidden city pricing Hidden city pricing is when it's cheaper to buy a ticket from A to C via B, than a ticket just from A to B. Here's an example: In this example, a point-to-point ticket from Sydney to Melbourne costs $150. But a ticket on the same flight from Sydney to Melbourne, with an onward connection to Launceston, might only cost $100 in total. This phenomenon often exists when an airline that doesn't offer direct flights from A to C is trying to compete with an airline that does. In the Launceston example, a competing airline may have a direct Sydney-Launceston flight selling for $110. ## Some real-world examples of hidden-city pricing Here's a real-life example of hidden-city pricing. Airnorth flies from Darwin to Alice Springs with stops in Katherine and Tennant Creek. They also sell tickets for the individual sectors. Strangely, it's more expensive to book just part of the journey than it is to fly all the way through from Darwin to Alice Springs! Darwin-Alice Springs (via Tennant Creek) costs $472 on the Airnorth website. Darwin-Tennant Creek costs $475 on the Airnorth website. The cheaper through-pricing is because another airline flies direct between Darwin and Alice Springs. Airnorth chooses to price its Darwin-Alice Springs flights lower, so its less convenient one-stop service can compete. Here's another example of a hidden-city pricing. A one-way Qantas Business Class flights from Perth to Sydney costs around $2,800. But Qantas Business class flights from Perth to Christchurch – *via Sydney* – cost around half of this price! Qantas Business Class pricing from Perth to Christchurch via Sydney. Qantas Business Class pricing from Perth to Sydney. If you wanted to fly Business class from Perth to Sydney, it would be **cheaper to book a ticket all the way from Perth to Christchurch and simply not take the second flight**. Hidden-city tickets can be good deals, but you should **be aware of some of the risks** involved: - If you miss any flight on your booking, the rest of the booking will be automatically cancelled. So you would need to **make sure that the flight you plan to skip is the last flight on the booking**. - You would also need to make sure that you **don't have any checked luggage**, as the airline may not be willing to tag your bag to an airport that isn't your final destination. - Of course, the airlines don't like this practice as it means they lose revenue. There have been reports of airlines demanding the fare difference, and even banning customers who repeatedly take advantage of hidden-city loopholes. Lufthansa famously tried to do this in 2019, although the airline lost a subsequent court case. ## The convenience premium Want to fly from Frankfurt to Hong Kong? The cheapest option is often British Airways via London. Want to fly from London to Hong Kong? The cheapest option is often Lufthansa via Frankfurt. Airlines often charge a premium for the convenience of a direct flight. They may also charge more for things like... - Flying to an airport that's closer to the city centre (e.g. London City Airport vs London Stansted or Luton Airport) - More convenient departure and arrival times. Perth-Canberra airfares on the Qantas website. In this example, Qantas has decided to charge customers more to fly *direct* from Canberra to Perth than via another city. Indeed, many people will pay more for this convenience. But frequent flyers might prefer the indirect option which earns more points and status credits! ;) ## One-way pricing One-way international flights are often more expensive than return flights. In this example, a one-way United Airlines flight from Melbourne to Los Angeles would cost substantially *more* than a round-trip booking! One-way MEL-LAX airfare with United Airlines. A round-trip MEL-LAX airfare with United Airlines. Pay less to get more! Most premium airlines exclude one-way bookings from special sales and discounts. In fact, if you want to fly one-way, many airlines will only sell you a flexible ticket in a more expensive fare class. This is what's going on here with United Airlines. There are two main reasons that one-way fares may be more expensive: - Whenever you fly somewhere, the plane has to return to wherever it came from. If everyone bought one-way tickets, the seats on the return flight might remain empty. But the plane still has to operate the return flight, seats filled or not. - To make it more difficult for customers to take advantage of lower prices in different markets. Luckily, there are some ways to get around this. We'll discuss these later in this course. The one-way pricing anomaly doesn't generally apply to domestic, short-haul or low-cost carrier flights. In these instances, flights are priced as one-way sectors. So you wouldn't be penalised for booking a one-way flight, for example, between Melbourne and Sydney. ## Revenue management in action Well, that explains a few of the most common airfare pricing anomalies. But even flights on the *same* day, to the *same* destination, and on the *same* airline can vary wildly in price! We already know that prices are determined by supply and demand. But on a micro level, the exact prices and availability of individual fares are controlled by the airline's "revenue management" team. Revenue management constantly monitors airfares, adjusting them according to actual and expected ticket sales with the goal of maximising profit. There is a trade-off between not selling enough seats, and selling too many cheap seats while turning away customers that are prepared to pay a high fare (this is known as high yield spill). In Course 7, we introduced the concept of fare classes. As you may recall, there are only a limited number of tickets available in each class. As tickets in the cheapest fare classes sell out, the airline will start selling more expensive tickets from the next fare bucket. This process continues, until only the most expensive tickets are left, or they all sell out completely. This is why flights become more expensive as more tickets are sold. It also means that fares remain low on flights with the fewest tickets sold. In this way, airlines can try to balance the loads on each flight by encouraging more people to buy tickets on the less popular flights. Let's look at an example... Qantas fares and the corresponding fare class availability as shown in ExpertFlyer. The above image shows the fare class availability corresponding to each of these Melbourne-Adelaide flights for sale on the Qantas website. On **Qantas domestic flights**, these booking classes come under the following fare types: Fare categoryFare classesEconomy Classic RewardXEconomy Red e-DealM, L, V, S, N, Q, O, EEconomy FlexY, B, H, KBusiness Classic RewardUBusinessJ, C, D, I The 6.40am flight has plenty of Red e-Deal availability and is therefore the cheapest. But all the Red e-Deal

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
