---
title: "Status &amp; Paid Airline Lounge Membership"
category: learning
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 02: Credit Cards &amp; Airport Lounges"
module: "How to Access Airport Lounges"
---

# Status &amp; Paid Airline Lounge Membership

**Status & Paid Airline Lounge Membership** This unit provides a detailed comparison of the paid airline lounge membership options of interest to Australian flyers. In this training unit, we will cover… ## Introduction to airport lounges For many people, a trip to the airport means waiting in a crowded terminal and paying through the nose for a sub-par sandwich and coffee. But an oasis awaits behind those frosted glass doors... Airport lounges are like sanctuaries that take the stress out of flying! If you're going on holiday, you can relax in comfort with free food and drinks to help you get into vacation mode. And for business travellers, lounges can be a practical pit-stop where you can get some work done or grab a coffee before your flight. The Qantas London Lounge. Photo: Qantas. While these vary, typical airport lounge amenities include: - Comfortable seating areas - Complimentary buffet food & drinks (including barista coffee and alcoholic beverages) - Clean toilets and showers - Free Wi-Fi and business facilities Many airline-operated lounges also have service desks within their lounges where you can access special assistance (such as requesting an upgrade, seat selection or getting help if your flight is disrupted). Service desk in the Virgin Australia Lounge in Adelaide. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Who can access airport lounges? In general, there are two types of airport lounges: - Airline-operated lounges (e.g. Qantas Club lounges) - Airport lounges operated by third parties (e.g. Plaza Premium lounges) If you have elite airline status or fly in premium cabins, you'll automatically have access to airline lounges whenever you fly. We'll cover airline status in lots more detail in Course 4 of the Australian Frequent Flyer training. But if you don't have status - or you happen to be flying with a different airline - there are still ways to access the lounge. ## Airline-operated lounges As a general rule, the following passengers can access an **airline-operated lounge** when flying on the same day with that airline: - Passengers flying in Business or First Class - Passengers hold Gold (or higher) status with that airline or a partner airline - Passengers with a paid lounge membership (e.g. Qantas Club or Virgin Australia Lounge membership) - Passengers with a single-entry lounge pass or invitation (e.g. from a credit card or as a benefit of Silver status) There are unfortunately lots of exceptions to the above. Some in the airline industry have joked that you need a university degree to fully understand the complexities of lounge access rules. But those are the main entry criteria that apply for *most* airlines, *most* of the time. The Qantas Club at Karratha Airport. Photo: Qantas. In Australia Qantas, Virgin Australia and Regional Express all sell annual lounge memberships. Purchasing a lounge membership could be ideal if you regularly fly on the same airline, but not quite often enough to earn Gold or a higher status tier. ## Third-party lounges As an alternative to gaining lounge access through your airline, you might be able to use a third-party airport lounge. These lounges welcome eligible passengers regardless of the airline, class of travel or status on their boarding pass. Some ways that you might be able to access **third-party airport lounges** include: - By holding a credit card that comes with complimentary lounge access - With a Priority Pass membership (if that lounge participates in Priority Pass) - With a Dragon Pass, LoungeKey, Diners Club or another type of airport lounge membership (for participating lounges) - By purchasing access at the door - By pre-purchasing access through a service such as LoungePair or Lounge Buddy - Through Mastercard Flight Delay Pass, if you've registered via your credit card and your flight is delayed 2+ hours - With a Delayed Flight Lounge Pass if you have a NAB Rewards Signature credit card and your flight is delayed by at least one hour - With an invitation provided by your airline, in the event you're eligible for lounge access through your airline but they don't operate their own lounge at the airport you're flying from Photo: Matt Graham. ## Qantas Club The Qantas Club is the largest and most popular paid lounge membership offered by an Australian airline. Qantas Club members can access the following lounges when flying the same day on a Qantas or Jetstar marketed flight, including QF-coded codeshare flights operated by partner airlines: - Domestic Qantas Club lounges - International Qantas Business lounges - Third-party lounges at international Qantas ports (when flying Qantas only) - American Airlines Admirals Club lounges (when flying Qantas or American Airlines) - Emirates Business Lounge in Dubai (when flying Qantas or Emirates) - Alaska Airlines lounges in Los Angeles, Seattle, Anchorage and Portland when connecting between Qantas and Alaska Airlines Note that access to American Airlines Admirals Club lounges when travelling on American Airlines marketed and operated flights is a special exception. Qantas Club membership does not come with lounge access when flying with other Oneworld airlines such as Cathay Pacific or British Airways. You would need to have Qantas Gold (or higher) status to access lounges across the entire Oneworld alliance network. Qantas Club members can use American Airlines Admirals Club lounges. Photo: American Airlines. Qantas Club members can bring one complimentary guest with them into any Qantas lounge. Up to two children are also allowed in addition to this guest allowance. Guests must be flying the same day on a Qantas, Jetstar or partner airline flight. Paid Qantas Club members also receive: - Additional baggage allowance on Qantas flights - Access to priority check-in counters when flying Qantas international Qantas has the largest Australian lounge network of any airline. Qantas Clubs are available at 24 Australian airports including all capital cities: Domestic Qantas Club lounge locations. Qantas Club members also have access to an extensive network of lounges at Qantas international destinations around the world: Qantas international lounge locations (shown in red) and partner lounge locations (shown in white). Qantas Club membership prices are listed at the end of this unit. Note that discounted rates are available with an Australian Frequent Flyer membership. ## Qantas Club Flexible As an alternative to buying an annual lounge membership, you can buy a Qantas Club Flexible membership. This comes with some of the benefits of Qantas Club, but you only get access to Qantas operated lounges and cannot bring a guest with you into the lounge. Flexible membership comes with the standard $129 joining fee but you pay $99 per 28 days. The membership auto-renews until you cancel it. ## Single-entry Qantas Club passes Qantas offers one complimentary lounge pass each year to Silver frequent flyers, and two each year to Points Club members. Some Australian credit cards also come with complimentary Qantas lounge invitations. Qantas also occasionally offers single-entry lounge passes for sale on an invitation-only basis. A single visit to a domestic Qantas Club lounge costs $39-$49, and a visit to international lounges costs $69-$99 per visit. Lounge access may be offered by email to selected Qantas Frequent Flyer Bronze and Silver members when travelling during off-peak periods, around 2-5 days before the flight. ## Complimentary Qantas Club membership with Points Club Plus If you earn more than 350,000 Qantas Points within a single Qantas Frequent Flyer membership year - with at least 330,000 earned from non-flying activities - you'll become a Qantas Points Club Plus member. One of the benefits of Points Club Plus is a non-transferrable Qantas Club membership. This is a great perk if you're earning lots of Qantas Points on the ground (for example, through your credit card spend). AFF Platinum members can read more about Qantas Points Club in Course 4. ## Virgin Australia Lounge Virgin Australia operates its own lounge network within Australia. Lounge members receive access to any Virgin Australia Lounge when flying with Virgin Australia. Access on arrival is also possible, subject to availability, up to one hour after arrival. Virgin Lounge members can bring in up to one adult guest, plus two additional children under the age of 12. (With Qantas, additional child guests may be up to 18 years old.) The Virgin Australia Lounge in Canberra. Photo: Virgin Australia. Here is the Virgin Australia lounge network: Virgin Australia Lounge locations. Virgin's lounge network is not nearly as extensive as Qantas'. Virgin Australia operates just 7 lounges in major Australian cities. But this *is* reflected in the lower membership price. Access to third-party lounges at selected airports is no longer offered when flying with Virgin Australia or any of its partner airlines on international flights. Virgin Australia no longer offers a discount on lounge membership to Silver Velocity members, which costs a flat fee of $450 per year. Since 1 July 2024, there is also a $99 joining fee. (A $20 discount is available to Virgin Australia Business Flyer members.) Virgin also sells single-entry lounge access at the door for $65 per visit. Velocity Silver frequent flyers also receive two annual complimentary lounge passes. ## Rex Lounge Regional Express (Rex) has airport lounges in Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide. Lounge members can access Rex lounges either before or after any Rex flight to/from these airports. The Rex Lounges are relatively small and don't quite match the standard of the larger Qantas and Virgin lounges. But facilities like free wifi, work stations, snacks and drinks are provided. The Rex Lounge at Sydney Airport T2. Photo: Matt Graham. Members can bring one additional guest to the lounge, plus additional guests for an extra $22 each. Rex also sells one-time lounge access for $33 per visit. This can be paid for at the door, or when checking in for your Rex flight. Casual lounge access is not available during peak periods (i.e. weekday mornings before 9am and weekdays after 2pm). ## A more cost-effective way to visit Rex lounges Rex Lounge access is also available to Priority Pass members, even if you're flying with another airline! We'll cover Priority Pass and credit card lounge access later in this course. ## Star Alliance lounge access It's not widely known that you can pay for unlimited access to Star Alliance lounges all around the world! **Paid United Club "All Access" membership comes with access to all Star Alliance lounges when flying with any Star Alliance airline.** The United Club in Denver (B Gates East). Photo: United Airlines. If you fly frequently on Star Alliance airlines, but not enough to earn the equivalent of Star Alliance Gold status, a lounge membership with United could be your ticket into the lounge. Access to any lounge operated by a Star Alliance airline will be available as long as you have your membership card with you and are flying on a Star Alliance airline that day. However, it's not a great bargain. In total, over 200 international lounges are covered. Be aware that access is not granted to third-party and contract lounges that aren't operated by a Star Alliance airline. A full list of lounge locations can be found on the Star Alliance website. With this membership one guest per visit is allowed, provided the guest is also travelling on a Star Alliance flight that day. United Club members are allowed two guests when flying United. One additional benefit of United Club membership is access to Amtrak lounges at railway stations in Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Washington DC. As an alternative to purchasing a United Club membership, you can access Star Alliance lounges with Star Alliance Gold status. This is a benefit that comes with the HSBC Star Alliance credit card in Australia, provided you meet the minimum spend criteria. This would be a cheaper option than buying All Access membership of United Club! ## Airline lounge membership prices Here are the airline lounge membership prices as of December 2025. Prices are for one year in AUD, unless specified. **Membership****Joining fee****Annual fee****Lounges in Australia****Total lounges****Guests**Qantas Club - new member$149$7992880+1Qantas Club - new member (with AFF discount)$149$6392880+1Qantas Club - renewal-$7192880+1Qantas - Club - renewal (with

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
