---
title: "Choosing a Frequent Flyer Program"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity, krisflyer]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 03: Transferring &amp; Redeeming Points"
module: "Transferring Points to Overseas Airlines"
---

# Choosing a Frequent Flyer Program

**Choosing a Frequent Flyer Program** Learn how to compare frequent flyer programs, helping you to decide which programs to earn points with and transfer points into, depending on your redemption goals. In this training unit, we will cover... ## What to look for in a frequent flyer program There are three main ways to compare frequent flyer programs: - The value and ease of **earning points** - The value and ease of **redeeming points** - The value and ease of **earning status** If you're thinking about which airline's program to use as your main one - where you focus the most attention, earn the majority of your points and perhaps even achieve elite status - then it's important to think about all three of these things. But if you have points sitting in a credit card rewards program account, and just want to transfer points into a frequent flyer program to use for a specific redemption, then the ease of earning points & status with that program are largely irrelevant. Let's look at these in more detail... ## Earning points When comparing frequent flyer programs, the first thing to look for is how easy it is to earn points. Think about: - What are the earn rates like? - Are you able to earn points easily given your spending patterns and where you live? An obscure overseas program may offer great redemption options - but there's no point focusing on a program that doesn't give you a realistic opportunity to earn points. If you live in Australia, you should have no trouble accumulating Qantas or Velocity points. But these are not your only options! There is value in many overseas frequent flyer programs - if you're able to earn points with them. If you regularly fly with a certain airline, then you should be able to earn plenty of points in the frequent flyer program of that airline or one of its partners. If you have a credit card with the option to transfer the points earned to a particular frequent flyer program, then you should also have no trouble accumulating points. For example, you can transfer points from many Australian credit card reward programs to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer and Cathay. We'll look at these programs in detail later in this course. It's relatively easy to earn KrisFlyer miles through credit card spend in Australia. Photo: Singapore Airlines. ## Redeeming points Burn rates are equally as important as earn rates. Each frequent flyer program has its own award charts which dictate the number of points required for a reward flight. These rates can vary enormously between programs. For example, one-way Qantas Business Class flights from Perth to Auckland cost 57,000 Qantas points but only 25,000 American Airlines AAdvantage miles. You should also consider the range of different redemption options, and how easy it is to *actually redeem* your points. Are there many reward seats available on flights you want? Or is redeeming points more like a lottery? You might have millions of points, but they're worthless if you can't actually use them! ## Ease of earning status The third criteria relates to status. You'll want to investigate exactly what benefits each airline offers its loyal customers, and how easy it is to attain status based on your flying patterns. As a general rule, it will of course be easier to gain elite status if the airline has low thresholds for achieving it. But you should also check the fine print. Is there a requirement to fly a minimum number of sectors on that particular airline? Many North American airlines also have a minimum spend requirement. All of these things could make it more difficult to earn status. ## Other considerations There are a few other things to consider when choosing a frequent flyer program. ## Preferred airlines If you regularly fly with the same airline, or perhaps your company travel policy dictates which airline/s you must fly, it might be best to join the frequent flyer program of that airline. There are a few reasons for this: - Earn and burn rates are often skewed to benefit travellers using the program of the airline they're flying with. - Most airlines only allow you to upgrade using points from the airline's own program. - There may be a requirement to fly a minimum number of sectors on your home airline in order to earn and retain elite status. That's not to say you should necessarily overlook other programs if you can get a better deal elsewhere! For example, some Air New Zealand flyers might be better off crediting to another Star Alliance program such as United MileagePlus. If you exclusively fly Virgin Australia, it makes sense to credit all your flights to Velocity. Photo: Virgin Australia. ## Airline alliances You might also want to consider the network of partners that offer reciprocal earn and burn opportunities with your airline, as well as status benefits. This is more important if you travel overseas regularly than if you mainly fly within Australia. For example, Qantas is a Oneworld member. So, Qantas Frequent Flyer status comes with fairly solid benefits that are recognised across the entire Oneworld alliance. Oneworld member airline logos. Photo: Matt Graham. While Velocity Frequent Flyer status is recognised by a handful of partner airlines, Virgin has a smaller partner airline network than Qantas and the benefits offered are less consistent. The trade-off is that it's generally easier to earn Velocity status than it is to earn Qantas status. Qantas Frequent Flyer status is harder to earn than Velocity status, but comes with more rewarding benefits on international partner airlines. Photo: Jonathan Wong. If your airline is in one of the three global alliances, then you're likely to have access to a partner airline in most parts of the world. That's good because it means you can earn and redeem points, and have access to reciprocal status benefits when flying overseas. But if the airline has none, or just a few partners, its usefulness will be much more limited. ## Is status important to you? Status *may *or *may not *be an important consideration for you. It really depends on how often you fly, and your usual class of travel. If you're a frequent Economy Class flyer, status is probably a big drawcard. But if you just take a couple of leisure flights each year, or fly exclusively in premium cabins, it could be irrelevant. Status has little benefit if you're flying Business or First Class because most of the benefits of status (such as lounge access) are already included with your ticket. Keep in mind that you won't generally earn status credits when flying on reward bookings (with some exceptions, like Qantas Points Club). So if most of your travel is on points, there's probably little point worrying about status anyway. A trade-off to flying on points is that you might not earn status credits. ## How to decide which program to credit flights to If you're having trouble deciding which frequent flyer program to credit a flight to, the free Where to Credit website can be a huge help. Simply enter the airline you're flying and your fare class, and Where to Credit will show you which frequent flyer programs you can earn points with. It will also show you the rate at which you can earn points or miles with each program. Where to Credit provides an overview of frequent flyer programs that you can credit your flight to. This AFF article explains how to determine your fare class, and some of the other considerations when crediting flights to partner airlines. ## How to decide where to transfer credit card points So far in this unit, we've looked at ways to compare frequent flyer programs. If you're earning points with a flexible credit card rewards program, you'll probably have to do this at some point when deciding which airline to transfer your points to. The best way to determine where to transfer your points is to work backwards: Start by considering **how you would like to use** your points: - Where would you like to fly? - In which class of travel? - How many seats do you need? - Would you rather redeem your points for hotel stays, or something else? Once you've decided how you want to spend your points, identify which frequent flyer (or hotel) program/s is the best to use for that type of reward. Each program has its own sweet spots and some offer better award availability than others. **Point transfers cannot be reversed!** So, we recommend checking that the reward/s you're after are actually available before initiating the transfer. We also recommend that you only transfer points with a particular reward in mind. If you don't have any immediate plans to spend the points, don't transfer them yet! That way, you can maintain the flexibility to transfer them to the best available program whenever you need them. (You may have to make an exception are closing your credit card account, or the points are about to expire or lose value.) ## Holding award seats Point transfers can take a few days days, so allow plenty of time. If you're transferring points to redeem for a specific reward where availability is limited, it is possible that someone else will book the award seat you're after before the transfer is completed. If this is a concern, you could try to use a frequent flyer program that allows you to place a hold on award seats while the transfer takes place. American Airlines AAdvantage and Virgin Atlantic Flying Club are two programs that allow award booking holds. Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer and Cathay Pacific Asia Miles may allow this under some circumstances. You would need to call up and hope for a helpful agent. American Airlines AAdvantage will let you hold award seats for a few days. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Bonus point promotions It also pays to keep an eye out for special offers and discounts on point transfers. For example, Velocity Frequent Flyer tends to offer 15% bonus Velocity points when transferring credit card points every May and November. An example of a past Velocity Frequent Flyer promotion on points transfers. ## Online resources Here are some of the online resources that can help you to decide which frequent flyer program/s to transfer your points to: ## AFF Credit Card Points Transfer Assistant We created the Credit Card Points Transfer Assistant, a tool specifically to help Australians decide where to transfer their credit card points. Select any credit card rewards program on the list, and you'll see a list of airlines (and/or other loyalty programs) that you can transfer your points into. Click on any of those programs for more information and a summary of how points can be redeemed in any of the programs. ## Milez If you wish to redeem your points on a specific route, Milez can be a useful resource. Simply enter the origin, destination and each of the frequent flyer programs you have access to through your credit card rewards program. The tool then compares the cost of redeeming points for that flight through each program. However, Milez **does not show real-time award availability**. ## AwardLogic AwardLogic can be very useful because it not only compares the number of points or miles you need for a particular booking - but it also shows real-time award availability! If you have a paid account, you can also filter to only show seats that are accessible to book using frequent flyer programs that partner with Australian credit card rewards programs. You can use AwardLogic to find real-time award flight information, and use filters to only show options available through loyalty programs accessible to you. ## Other award availability search tools There are a range of other websites and tools that can help you to find real-time award availability and also show the number of points/miles you would need to book those flights.

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
