---
title: "Buying Avios"
category: programs
programs: [qantas, velocity]
intents: [LEARNING, CARD_MATCH]
source: "Course 06: Buying Points"
module: "Key Programs that Sell Points"
---

# Buying Avios

**Buying Avios** Avios is the common currency of British Airways, Qatar Airways, Finnair and more. They are a great currency for Qantas short-haul, Qatar Airways long-haul and various other niche redemptions. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Why buy Avios? Avios is the currency of programs including British Airways Club, Qatar Airways Privilege Club and Finnair Plus. The British Airways Club program (formerly called Executive Club) is most useful for short domestic flights on Qantas and other Oneworld airlines. Although many long-haul awards are poor value, short flights and Qatar Airways flights between Australia & Europe are great sweet spots. British Airways sells Avios that can be redeemed for Oneworld flights. Photo: Matt Graham. Each of these three programs offer regular discounts and bonuses on Avios purchases, but the best offer we've seen so far is when buying Finnair Avios at a 50% discount. ## Buying British Airways Club Avios The price of Avios purchased varies depending on the currency used and amount being purchased. Generally, you'll be charged in the currency of the country where your account is registered. Note that prices are more expensive for accounts charged in USD compared to those charged in GBP or EUR! In general, buying a small amount of Avios can be quite expensive. But the average price decreases as you buy more Avios. For example, if your account was registered in Australia, it would cost USD65 to buy 2,000 Avios. But if you buy 20,000 Avios, the price is only USD479. That's a lower cost per thousand in exchange for buying a larger amount. British Airways does offer bonuses from time to time. These are semi-frequent, with 2-4 offers per year. The bonus amounts are usually no more than about 50%. There is an annual purchase limit of 200,000 Avios per calendar year, excluding bonuses. This limit is sometimes extended during special promotions. **In order to buy Avios, you must already have at least one Avios in your account.** One way to get around this restriction is to buy points from Avios.com, then transfer to British Airways Club. Alternatively, credit any Oneworld flight to British Airways or book an Agoda Points Max hotel stay that credits to British Airways to earn at least one Avios. You can purchase British Airways Club Avios on the British Airways website. Screenshot from the British Airways "buy miles" shopping portal. ## Buying Qatar Airways Privilege Club Avios Qatar Airways joined the Avios network in 2022, enabling travellers to purchase Avios directly from Qatar Airways for award flights. As with British Airways, buying Avios is most valuable during promotions offering discounts or bonuses. Avios purchases start at 1,000 Avios for $44.35, with prices decreasing for larger purchases. The best rate is $36.43 per 1,000 Avios when buying 26,000 or more. Promotions can offer even better deals, with up to a 60% bonus offered previously. You can purchase Qatar Airways Avios on the Qatar website. ## Buying Finnair Plus Avios Finnair Plus adopted Avios in 2024, allowing members to purchase Avios and transfer them to British Airways or Qatar Airways for more redemption options. This opens up more opportunities for cheaper travel, and also allows for redemptions on Finnair Premium Economy. Purchases start at 1,000 Avios for €27 (~AU$45), with lower prices for larger bundles. The best rate is €21 (~AU$35) per 1,000 Avios when buying 100,000 or more at full price, but there are regular promotions. For example, at a 50% discount, you would pay €10.50 (~AU$17.50) per 1,000 Avios. **This is the lowest price we've seen so far from an airline selling Avios.** Finnair also **doesn't** require any transaction history on the account before purchasing. So if you're new to Avios, you could consider buying 1,000 Avios from Finnair, and then transfer on to British Airways and/or Qatar Airways. You can purchase Finnair Plus Avios from the Finnair website. ## Avios subscriptions Since October 2022, British Airways Club offers the possibility to purchase an Avios subscription. This allows you to purchase Avios at a fixed price, with a monthly amount deposited into your account. There are four subscription levels: British Airways Avios subscription options on the BA website (prices shown are for UK residents). The exact prices will depend on which country your British Airways Club account is registered in, and therefore what currency you are charged in. But on face value, the prices available when buying a subscription provide around a 44% discount. This is significantly better than a 50% bonus Avios offer. So, this could be a very good deal if you want to buy Avios and don't need them immediately! ## Transferring Avios You can transfer Avios between these frequent flyer programs. Avios is the common currency of several different loyalty programs: - British Airways Club - Iberia Plus - Aer Lingus AerClub - Vueling Club - Qatar Airways Privilege Club - Finnair Plus - Loganair Loyalty If you have accounts with more than one program that uses Avios, you can transfer your Avios between accounts at a 1:1 rate. The cost buying of Avios is generally the same regardless of whether you buy them from British Airways or Iberia, although variations can exist due to exchange rates and special promotions. The cost may be different when buying from Qatar Airways or Finnair. For our purposes, it's probably easier just to stick to the British Airways Club program. But there are a couple of reasons you may wish to sign up for an Iberia Plus, Finnair Plus, Qatar Airways Privilege Club or an AerClub account: - You may find that it is cheaper to buy Avios from Iberia, Finnair or Qatar Airways due to exchange rate differences, or if they are having a better promotion - Some awards may have lower fuel surcharges if you redeem through the Iberia Plus program - Qatar Airways and Finnair charges different award prices than British Airways & Iberia, which may or may not work out to be a better deal - Qatar Airways Privilege Club has a higher annual purchase limit - You can book Finnair Premium Economy seats using Finnair Avios, and also access lower redemption rates on some other Finnair flights The rules for buying Avios from Iberia, Qatar Airways and Finnair are slightly different. With Iberia, you'll either need to have at least one Avios in your account, *or *have been a member for at least three months. So if you think you may buy miles in the future from Iberia, you might want to consider signing up right now to get past that three-month hurdle as quickly as possible. With Qatar Airways, you need to already have previously earned at least 1,000 Avios in your Privilege Club account to buy more Avios. The annual purchase limit of Qatar Airways Avios is 250,000. To redeem Avios, we would generally suggest using the British Airways program as this is likely to be cheaper (especially for short-haul flights). Iberia's program *may *be useful if you want to fly on an Iberia partner that is not common to BA, such as avianca. Iberia also uses different dates to BA for its peak and off-peak level awards. None of this is relevant for Qantas redemptions, which are always priced at the "peak" level anyway. For long-haul award flights, Qatar Airways redemptions might be cheaper. So it could be worth checking both British Airways Club and Qatar Airways Privilege Club pricing. Qatar Airways also allows redemptions with several airlines that do not partner with British Airways. Finnair reserves a certain number of redemption seats per flight for its own Finnair Plus members. So, transferring Avios to Finnair Plus could help you redeem on Finnair. Also, award prices on Finnair flights are generally cheaper through its own program rather than British Airways or Qatar Airways. A Finnair Airbus A350-900 at Hong Kong. Photo: Matt Graham. ## Redeeming British Airways Avios British Airways Avios can be redeemed on any Oneworld airline: Oneworld member airlines. You can also redeem British Airways Avios on Aer Lingus. It should be possible to book most award flights on the British Airways website, although QantasLink flights may not appear online. You might need to call British Airways Club to book a QantasLink award flight. ## Transferring Avios to redeem with other airlines You could also redeem Avios for flights on a range of other airlines that partner with Qatar Airways Privilege Club, Finnair Plus or Iberia Plus - but not British Airways Club - by transferring your Avios. This diagram shows the airline partners available through each of the various programs using Avios as their common currency: Overview of airline partners of each of the seven airlines using Avios. ## British Airways Club award charts British Airways no longer publishes award charts. This is problematic because it means the airline can increase award prices at any time - and indeed, it has done this in the past. In general, award flights for travel under 2,000 miles in distance and long-haul Qatar Airways flights are good value. There is at least a clear pattern in award pricing for Qantas short-haul awards. As of April 2025, Qantas flights are priced as follows: **Distance****Example****Avios (Economy)****Avios (Business)**0-650 milesSydney-Hobart6,00012,500651-1,151 milesBrisbane-Adelaide9,00016,5001,152-2,000 milesMelbourne-Perth11,00022,0002,001-3000 milesSydney-Perth13,00038,750 To find other redemption prices, use the Avios calculator or search for a reward flight on the British Airways website. Note that the cheapest award level (for flights up to 650 miles in distance) is not available for domestic flights within the USA. Clearly with Qantas, short domestic flights such as Sydney to Melbourne are the best value. 12,500 Avios in Business class is a good deal. Even 6,000 Avios for Economy can be good value if the fare is otherwise high. Redeeming British Airways Avios for Qantas domestic flights such as Sydney-Melbourne can be good value. Screenshot from the British Airways website. As award availability for domestic flights is usually good, using British Airways miles could be a viable method of saving money on last-minute flights. Such Qantas flights are often priced in the hundreds of dollars, yet still have award seats available. For trans-continental flights, Melbourne to Perth offers fair value at 22,000 Avios in Business. But flights from Sydney/Brisbane to Perth fall in the more expensive category and cost nearly double that, at 38,750 Avios in Business class. Qantas flights under 2,000 miles are good value when booking with British Airways Avios. Photo: Qantas. In general, long-haul award flights using British Airways Club aren't good value and are to be avoided. However, British Airways does offer a relatively competitive Oneworld multi-carrier reward and **Qatar Airways Business Class awards between Australia and Europe are also superb value at 90,000 Avios** (this amount is subject to change). Example of a British Airways Avios redemption for Qatar Airways Business Class. Screenshot from the British Airways website. Plus, you'll **get access to Qatar Airways award seats up to 355 days in advance**. That's 25 days earlier than Velocity Frequent Flyer members get access, and *much* earlier than Qantas Frequent Flyer members! Qatar Airways Qsuite. Photo: Qatar Airways. ## Fees on British Airways Club award bookings - Phone booking fee: GBP15 (but most bookings can be made online for free) - Booking change or cancellation fee: GBP35 ## Redeeming Qatar Airways Privilege Club Avios Qatar Airways Avios are best used for Qatar Airways flights, offering early access to reward seats. Like British Airways, Qatar Airways Avios bookings unlock availability 355 days in advance, while Qantas and Velocity members wait longer and pay more in points and fees. Avios redemptions also work on select oneworld and non-alliance partners like American Airlines, Virgin Australia, JetBlue, and Oman Air. Many partner awards are bookable online, although some airlines require a manual request via the Qatar Airways website. **You should never do this, as it can take several days for the airline to get back to you.** While Qatar Airways and British Airways mostly share the same award chart, there are some differences. For example, domestic US flights on American Airlines and

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
