---
title: "Qantas Upgrades"
category: learning
programs: [qantas]
intents: [LEARNING]
source: "Course 07: Everybody Loves an Upgrade"
module: "Upgrade with Points"
---

# Qantas Upgrades

**Qantas Upgrades** Learn how to upgrade with Qantas Frequent Flyer points on domestic & international flights. In this training unit, we will cover... ## Upgrading with Qantas points The process of upgrading with Qantas points (which Qantas calls a "Classic Upgrade Reward") is different for domestic and international flights. The key difference is that **upgrades are never confirmed in advance for international flights**. This means that buying an Economy ticket and requesting an upgrade when flying overseas can be quite a risky strategy. For Qantas international upgrades, you won't find out if your upgrade request has been successful until a few days or hours before departure. The number of Qantas points required for a Classic Upgrade Reward will depend on the distance of the flight and the type of fare you originally booked. Upgrades from flexible fares require fewer points than from cheaper tickets originally booked as Red e-Deals, Saver fares or Classic Flight Reward tickets. See the charts on the Qantas website to find out how many points you'll need to upgrade on any given route. Most Qantas upgrades are one-class only, meaning you cannot upgrade from Economy or Premium Economy to First Class. There is an exception for upgrades from Economy to Business, which are allowed even where Premium Economy is available. Qantas Airbus A380 Business Class. Photo: Qantas. This unit looks at upgrading using Qantas points. We'll cover Bid Now and other types of upgrades later in this course. ## Eligible Qantas fares for upgrading Generally, you can only redeem frequent flyer points to upgrade on your own airline. In other words, you can't use Qantas points to upgrade on flights that aren't operated by Qantas. There are a few exceptions, which we will cover throughout this course. When upgrading with Qantas points, you must be booked on a flight that is both marketed and operated by Qantas. In other words, you should be booked on a "QF" flight number and flying on a Qantas aircraft. You also need to make sure the type of ticket you're booking is upgradeable: - For Qantas domestic flights, all ticket types can be upgraded using points - For Qantas international flights, Economy Sale fares are ineligible and cannot be upgraded with points (this includes fare classes N, O, Q and E) - Business Classic Reward tickets cannot be upgraded to First Class. Screenshot from the Qantas website. Using the above Sydney-Los Angeles flight as an example, here are the prices for a Business Class upgrade from each of the different fare categories shown: - Economy Sale - ineligible for points upgrades - Economy Saver - 98,100 Qantas points - Economy Flex - 54,000 Qantas points - Premium Economy Sale - 54,000 Qantas points - Economy Classic Reward - 109,000 Qantas points ## Upgrading on partner airlines With Qantas Frequent Flyer, there are some very specific exceptions to the "no upgrades on partner airlines" rule. Firstly, you can request an upgrade on most American Airlines flights using Qantas Points, unless you've booked Basic Economy. This is done through a dedicated Plusgrade portal and uses a different system to Qantas Classic Upgrade Rewards. You can also request a Qantas points upgrade on selected Qantas codeshare flights operated by LATAM Airlines & Aircalin. You must be booked on the "QF" flight number to be eligible for an upgrade. This applies to the following routes only: - Auckland-Santiago (operated by LATAM Airlines) - Melbourne-Santiago (operated by LATAM Airlines) - Sydney-Noumea (operated by Aircalin), if Business Class is available on the plane - Brisbane-Noumea (operated by Aircalin), if Business Class is available on the plane. To upgrade on the above codeshare flights, you would need to book and then request your upgrade on the Qantas website (as per the process below). Qantas will also introduce Classic Upgrade Rewards on Jetstar flights in 2026. ## How to request an upgrade with Qantas points You can request an upgrade on the Qantas website. Upgrades need to be requested for each individual flight in your journey. There are a few different ways to request a points upgrade: - Log into "Manage Booking" on the Qantas website and select the upgrade option - Log into your Qantas Frequent Flyer account, view upcoming trips and click "upgrade" beside any flights you want to upgrade - Call Qantas - Request an upgrade within the Qantas App - Sometimes, you may even be offered an upgrade when checking in at an airport kiosks for a domestic flight - For domestic flights, you can also request a last-minute upgrade at check-in or in the lounge. These are generally approved if there is still an available Business Class seat, but full on-board catering may not be assured in this instance. You can also request an upgrade when viewing your booking in the Qantas App. If you are upgrading a domestic flight with Qantas points, **the upgrade may be approved instantly (see below) if there is Business Reward availability on the flight** at the time of your request. Otherwise, your request will be placed on a waitlist. **You'll be notified by SMS before your flight** whether or not your upgrade was successful. If there are multiple passengers in your booking, you'll need to request upgrades for everyone on the booking. If you don't want to upgrade all passengers, split the booking first. ## Qantas domestic upgrades Qantas domestic upgrades are confirmed immediately if your booking has already been ticketed and there is sufficient Business Classic Reward availability on the flight. This is because upgrade availability and regular Classic Flight Reward availability come from exactly the same fare class (U) for Qantas domestic flights. Qantas domestic upgrades are given out on a "first come, first served" basis. They will be confirmed immediately, provided there is a Business Classic Reward seat available on your flight. So, **before booking, check for Business Classic Reward availability on your flight**! An example of available airfares from Sydney to Perth on the Qantas website. You could book a Red e-Deal and immediately upgrade to Business on either of the above flights as Business Classic Reward seats are available. You can still request an upgrade if there is no Business Reward availability on the flight. In that case, the upgrade will not be processed until a few days before the flight. However, if you waitlist for a domestic upgrade, it will not automatically clear immediately if another Business Reward seat becomes available! (It should, but it does not.) Therefore, you may wish to set an ExpertFlyer award seat alert for your flight if you have requested an upgrade. If a Business Classic Reward seat becomes available but your waitlisted upgrade request hasn't yet been approved, simply cancel and then re-submit the upgrade request. It should then be confirmed immediately. Qantas Boeing 737-800 Business Class. Photo: Qantas. Note that if you book the domestic leg of an international flight (such as QF33 between Sydney and Perth - with the flight continuing to Paris), it will be treated as an international upgrade. ## Qantas international upgrades Classic Upgrade Rewards on Qantas international flights use a "lottery" system. Because of this, if you happen to find Business award availability on your flight at the time of booking, **it's better just to book an outright Business Class reward seat**! That way, your premium cabin seat will be guaranteed. It also works out to be much better value in most cases! But if there is no Business Reward availability at the time of booking, or someone else is paying for your ticket, you can request a Classic Upgrade Reward any time. You'll be notified of the outcome a few days prior to the flight. ## International upgrade priority Upgrades are not approved on a first-come, first-served basis. Instead, Qantas Frequent Flyer members with the highest status level receive priority in the upgrade lottery. This means that the chances of success are unfortunately slim for Bronze members on popular routes and at peak times. In general, the priority is as follows: - Qantas Platinum One status (upgrades confirmed up to 7 days before departure) - Chairman's Lounge (upgrades confirmed up to 7 days before departure) - Qantas Platinum status (upgrades confirmed up to 3 days before departure) - Qantas Gold status (upgrades confirmed up to 24 hours before departure) - Qantas Silver status - Qantas Bronze member Your Qantas status affects your international flight upgrade chances. Platinum One members can request upgrades for eligible family members, and those upgrade requests will enjoy the Platinum One member's higher priority. If there are multiple people with the same status level vying for the same seat/s, other factors that Qantas may use to determine upgrade priority may include: - The original fare class booked (with upgrade given to passengers on more expensive tickets) - Number of passengers in your booking - Qantas Club membership - The date you requested your upgrade - Perceived/lifetime customer value Classic Upgrade Reward requests **are always processed before Bid Now upgrades**. So, if you want to maximise your chances of upgrading (regardless of your status tier), request an upgrade using points. ## International upgrades: Maximising your chances of success If you plan to request an upgrade with points on a Qantas international flight, it pays to do some research before booking. As a general rule, it's best to book a flight that is unlikely to be full in the premium cabin/s. Try to book flights: - During the middle of the week (flights departing Tuesdays and Wednesdays are often less full) - Outside of peak periods like school holidays - On aircraft where Premium Economy and First Class is offered (i.e. the Airbus A380) The best way to maximise your chances of upgrading successfully is to check how full the flight will be before booking. Searching for flight availability on ExpertFlyer, which was featured in the last unit, you can see a breakdown of the number of seats left for sale in each fare class. Use this information to compare the real-time loadings of different flights that you're considering booking. Then, book the flight where your chances of getting upgraded are highest. (This is more of an art than a science, but using this information is better than guessing blindly as to which might be the best flight!) On flights where many seats are still available for sale in the premium cabins - especially if the departure date is imminent - your upgrade is more likely to be approved. For example, here are the results of ExpertFlyer flight availability searches on two different Qantas flights from Sydney to Los Angeles: In of the above screenshots, we've highlighted the Business fare classes in purple. For **Flight 1**, we can see that only 2 seats are left in "J", the highest Business fare class. This is *not *a good sign as it means **the cabin is nearly full**! But on **Flight 2**, there are at least 9 seats available for sale in three out of the four Business fare classes. This would indicate that **an upgrade request is more likely to be successful**, especially if the flight was coming up soon, as there are still plenty of unsold Business Class seats. Keep in mind that **ExpertFlyer loadings will be more reliable closer to the departure date**. If the flight is still months away, then there is still a lot of time for all of those remaining seats to be sold. You can't read much into any empty Business class cabin if the flight isn't for another six months! ## Is upgrading with points good value? It depends. There are some advantages to upgrading with points: - This is good value if the Economy fare is relatively low and the upgrade is guaranteed. - You'll earn points and status credits for the fare class originally purchased. (When booking an outright reward seat, no points or status credits are earned unless you're in Qantas Points Club.) - It provides another pathway to Business or First Class if there are no

[Content truncated for knowledge base]
